O*NET®
Interest Profiler Manual
Edited by:
James Rounds
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Kevin Hoff
University of Houston
Phil Lewis
National Center for O*NET Development

Prepared for
U.S. Department of Labor
Employment and Training Administration
Office of Workforce Investment
Division of National Programs, Tools, & Technical Assistance
Washington, DC
Submitted by
The National Center for O*NET Development
March, 2021

www.onetcenter.org

National Center for O*NET Development, 313 Chapanoke Road, Suite 130
Raleigh, NC 27603

TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................................3
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS ...............................................................................................4
CHAPTER 1: Interest Assessment and the O*NET Interest Profiler ..................................5
CHAPTER 2: Interest Profiler Forms, Versions, and Linkage to Occupations.................14
CHAPTER 3: Test Administration, Scoring, and Reporting for the Interest Profiler .......30
CHAPTER 4: Development of Items and Interest Profiler Forms ....................................40
CHAPTER 5: Reliability Evidence for the Interest Profiler ..............................................61
CHAPTER 6: Validity Evidence for the Interest Profiler .................................................77
CHAPTER 7: Interest Profiler Linkage to O*NET Occupations ....................................121
CHAPTER 8: International Forms and Applications of the Interest Profiler ..................134

National Center for O*NET Development

2

[O*NET Interest Profiler Manual]
Executive Summary
The O*NET Interest Profiler (IP) is a vocational interest inventory designed for use in
educational planning, career exploration, and career guidance (Lewis & Rivkin, 1999). The
Interest Profiler was introduced in 1999 as one of the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL)
O*NET Career Exploration Tools. John Holland’s (1997) RIASEC theoretical model
(Realistic-Investigative-Artistic-Social-Enterprising-Conventional) is the basis of the Interest
Profiler scales. Over the years, millions of people have taken the Interest Profiler. Its current
web-based version included in the My Next Move and Mi Proximo Paso websites, versions
incorporated by private and public application developers, and available paper-and-pencil
version continue to make it a widely disseminated and extensively used career exploration tool.
Use and integration of the Interest Profiler is offered free-of-charge via the O*NET Career
Exploration Tools Content License (https://www.onetcenter.org/license_tools.html).
Since its introduction, the Interest Profiler has undergone several revisions, producing three
forms of the Interest Profiler: IP Long-Form, IP Short-Form, and Mini-IP. During these revisions
and selection of items and formats, O*NET has published a series of reports that documented the
construction and validation of the Interest Profiler. This documentation published on the O*NET
website (https://www.onetcenter.org/research.html?c=IP_CIP) has met the spirit of Standards for
Educational and Psychological Testing (2014), providing information on scoring, reliability and
validity of scores, and participants reactions to the experience of completing and receiving score
interpretations.
The present Interest Profiler Technical Manual integrates prior scale developmental reports and
summarizes over 20 years of research on the Interest Profiler. The manual is written as chapters,
authored by students and graduates of Industrial and Organizational PhD programs at the
University of Illinois-Urbana-Champaign and the University of Houston. Topics covered include
an overview of the Interest Profiler (chapter 1), forms and versions (chapter 2), scoring and
reporting (chapter 3), item development (chapter 4), reliability (chapter 5), validity (chapter 6),
linkage to occupations (chapter 7), and international applications (chapter 8).

National Center for O*NET Development

3

List of Contributors
Authors listed below are in alphabetical order:
Chu Chu
Department of Psychology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Kenneth E. Granillo-Velasquez
Department of Psychology
University of Houston
Alexis Hanna
Department of Management
University of Nevada, Reno
Kevin A. Hoff
Department of Psychology
University of Houston
Phil M. Lewis
National Center for O*NET Development
Hannah S. Nelson
Department of Psychology
University of Houston
James Rounds
Department of Psychology and Educational Psychology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Tianjun Sun
Department of Psychology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Colin J. M. Wee
Department of Psychology
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Bo Zhang
Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences
Texas A&M University

National Center for O*NET Development

4

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT

CHAPTER 1
Interest Assessment and the O*NET Interest Profiler
Kevin A. Hoff
University of Houston
At some point in life, every person must decide, “What kind of career do I want?” Children and
adolescents begin to learn about their career interests through schooling and extracurricular
activities. As young people age, they face important decisions about academic and career
planning that impact their later participation in the labor market.
Interest inventories were developed in the early 1900’s to help young people make career and
educational decisions. Their fundamental purpose is to measure and classify people’s vocational
interests based on the common interests that underlie different careers. This chapter provides an
introduction to interest measurement and the O*NET Interest Profiler, including:
•
•
•
•
•

A broad overview of the O*NET Interest Profiler and its various forms
Background on the nature and importance of vocational interests
Holland’s interest model and a description of the six RIASEC types
The various ways in which the Interest Profiler can be used
Research applications of the Interest Profiler

The O*NET Interest Profiler
The O*NET Interest Profiler (IP) is an interest inventory designed for use in educational
planning, career exploration, career guidance, and organizational placement (Lewis & Rivkin,
1999). The Interest Profiler is one of several O*NET Career Exploration Tools publicly available
through O*NET websites. The IP assesses career interests according to Holland’s (1997)
RIASEC (Realistic, Investigative, Artistic, Social, Enterprising, and Conventional) types. Clients
are asked to identify their likes and dislikes for different career tasks using a questionnaire.
Results are aggregated into scales based on Holland’s RIASEC types, which together form an
interest profile. A client’s interest profile is then linked to the interest profiles of different careers
based on the Standard Occupational Classification [(SOC); Office of Management and Budget,
2000; National Center For O*NET Development, 2010] system (e.g., Kroustalis, Lewis, &
Rivkin, 2010).
There are three forms of the O*NET Interest Profiler (IP), including: the IP Long-Form, the IP
Short-Form, and the Mini-IP. Each form was developed through rigorous research supporting the
psychometric properties of RIASEC scores. These studies have been reported in an ongoing
series of research reports, available on the O*NET Reports and Documents website
(https://www.onetcenter.org/research.html?c=IP_CIP). Each form is updated to ensure that the
items remain current and retain their psychometric properties over time. Because three Interest

National Center for O*NET Development

5

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
Profilers have been developed, each with several versions, O*NET has developed the following
labeling conventions (see Chapter 2 for additional details about each form):
1. O*NET Interest Profiler Long Form (IP Long Form; 180 items)
A. Paper-and-pencil version
B. Computerized version
2. O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form (IP Short Form; 60 items)
A. Paper-and-pencil version
B. Web-based version, English
C. Web-based version, Spanish
3. O*NET Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP; 30 items)
A. Mobile version
The IP Short Form, Web-based version, is currently delivered through My Next Move
(https://www.mynextmove.org/). In addition to the English-version delivered through My Next
Move, a Spanish-language version of the instrument is available through the Mi Proximo Paso
website (https://www.miproximopaso.org/). Private and public organizations and application
developers are also encouraged to incorporate the IP using O*NET Web Services
(https://services.onetcenter.org/) or by leveraging the available technical reports. Use and
integration of the Interest Profiler is offered free-of-charge via the O*NET Career Exploration
Tools Content License (https://www.onetcenter.org/license_tools.html).
Use of the Interest Profiler has increased dramatically after its introduction as a Web-based
measure on the My Next Move site. The My Next Move sites average over one million visits per
month (U.S. Department of Labor, 2018). The broad utility of the Interest Profiler plays an
important role in developing and maintaining a skilled workforce and contributes to U.S.
competitiveness in a global, 21st-century economy.
What Are Vocational Interests?
Vocational interests are trait-like preferences for activities, environments, or outcomes that
motivate goal-oriented behavior (Rounds & Su, 2014). More simply, interests describe what
people like to do and where they like to focus their attention and effort. Vocational interests are a
unique psychological variable in that they are directly contextualized to work and educational
environments. By asking what people like to do, interest assessments capture the degree of fit
between a person’s interests and the characteristics of different environments. This
concept—person-environment fit—explains why interests are a powerful predictor of the choices
people make throughout their careers and whether they are successful (Su, Stoll, & Rounds,
2018).
The O*NET Interest Profiler (IP) uses Holland’s (1959, 1997) RIASEC model to measure and
classify vocational interests. Holland’s model is the most widely used theoretical framework for
measuring interests. Holland’s typology describes people and work environments based on six
vocational personalities and environments, together known as RIASEC: realistic (R),
investigative (I), artistic (A), social (S), enterprising (E), and conventional (C). These types are
organized in a hexagon, also described as a circular structure (Day & Rounds, 1998), outlined in

National Center for O*NET Development

6

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
Figure 1. The interest categories that are next to each other (adjacent) on the hexagon are more
closely related than those further away or opposite on the hexagon. For example, Realistic
interests that involve working with hands, tools, and machines are closely related to Investigative
interests associated with science and technology.
Each RIASEC category contains a variety of work activities, occupations, and basic interests 1.
On the O*NET OnLine website (www.onetonline.org), all occupations have numeric profiles for
the six RIASEC interest categories as well as high-point codes. Occupational Interest Profiles
(OIPs) were developed by expert raters following standardized coding procedures (Rounds,
Armstrong, Liao, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2008; Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2013). O*NET OnLine
emphasizes high-point interest codes in each occupation’s Summary Report. High-point codes
represent the interest categories that best define an occupation, ranging from one-to-three letters.
All occupations have a first-letter code that best characterizes the occupation, followed by
(possible) second- and third-letter codes that capture secondary aspects of the job. For example,
the three-letter interest profile for Personal Financial Advisors is ECS (Enterprising,
Conventional, Social). This means that enterprising interests best describe the occupation, but
personal financial advising also involves conventional and social activities.
O*NET OnLine also displays numeric interest profiles for all six RIASEC categories under each
occupation’s Detailed Report (values range from 0-100). For example, under the Detailed Report
for Personal Financial Advisors, numeric values are displayed for all six RIASEC interests
ranging from “95” for Enterprising to “0” for Realistic. In addition to the O*NET Online
website, OIP data is also available for download in a variety of software formats
(https://www.onetcenter.org/dictionary/25.2/excel/interests.html).
Figure 1. Holland’s RIASEC Vocational Interest Model.

1 Basic interests represent an intermediate level of aggregation between specific occupations and Holland’s 1997
general occupational themes (c.f., Armstrong, Smith, Donnay, & Rounds, 2004; Su, Tay, Liao, & Rounds, 2019).
Each RIASEC category contains multiple basic interest scales, and each basic interest scale contains multiple
occupations that are closely related to each other.

National Center for O*NET Development

7

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
Realistic: Realistic careers involve working with hands, tools, and machines. Realistic
activities often deal with plants, animals, and real-world materials like wood, tools, and
machinery. Many of the careers involve practical problems and solutions, and
occasionally working outdoors.
Example basic interests: mechanics, engineering, outdoors, construction,
agriculture
Example careers: farmworkers, civil engineers, and carpenters
Investigative: Investigative careers involve working with ideas, and scientific and
research pursuits. Investigative activities often require an extensive amount of thinking.
These careers can involve searching for facts and figuring out problems mentally.
Example basic interests: medical science, life science, physical science,
mathematics
Example careers: biologists, veterinarians, and chemists
Artistic: Artistic careers involve self-expression and creativity and are typically
associated with the performing, written, and visual arts. Artistic activities often require
working with forms, designs and patterns, and the work can be done without following a
clear set of rules.
Example basic interests: media, design, performing arts, music, writing, culinary
art
Example careers: actors, writers, art directors
Social: Social careers involve helping, nurturing, and teaching other people. These
careers often require assisting or providing service to others.
Example basic interests: social science, education, health care service, humanities
Example careers: counselors, teachers, child and family social workers
Enterprising: Enterprising careers involve selling, managing, and social influence
typically in a business context. Enterprising activities often require supervising people,
leading projects, and making decisions.
Example basic interests: management, marketing, public speaking, sales, politics
Example careers: managers, salespersons, and restaurant bar and waiting staff
Conventional: Conventional careers involve the ordered and systematic manipulation of
data with clear standards, typically, in a business setting. Conventional activities typically
require following set rules with an attention to detail.
Example basic interests: finance, accounting, information technology, office work
Example careers: accountants, bank tellers, inspectors
A key assumption of Holland’s RIASEC model is that interest inventories do not simply measure
interests. They provide information about interrelated preferences, traits, self-concepts, values,
and abilities. Holland originally described the RIASEC categories as ‘personality types’ to
denote the surplus meaning associated with RIASEC vocational interests. This is consistent with
Holland’s (1958) initial proposal that “the choice of an occupation is an expressive act which

National Center for O*NET Development

8

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
reflects the person’s motivation, knowledge, personality, and ability” (p. 336). Thus, although
the O*NET Interest Profiler assesses vocational interests, it also provides information about a
range of other variables that develop in relation to interests (e.g., personality traits, abilities, and
values).
Why Assess Vocational Interests?
Vocational interests are among the most widely applied psychological variables. Interest
assessments are used to inform decision-making in a variety of contexts, such as educational
planning, career guidance, and organizational placement. The use of interest assessments as a
decision-making aid is supported by decades of research showing that vocational interests are
stable over time and predict important academic, career, and life outcomes.
Educational and workforce planning
Students, teachers, counselors, and parents can benefit by using the O*NET Interest Profiler as a
tool for educational planning and workforce preparation. After taking the IP, clients’ interest
profiles are directly connected to the O*NET OnLine website which classifies over 900
occupations in terms of interests (RIASEC coded), education, experience, and training required
to perform the occupation (as well as a host of other variables). Clients can use their IP results to
learn about the amount of preparation, training, and education required for careers that match
their interests. In addition, O*NET OnLine lists detailed information about technology skills,
knowledge, and abilities associated with different jobs. This information can be used to select
coursework or choose college majors that will prepare students for careers in which they are
interested. Teachers, counselors, and school administrators can also use this information to guide
curriculum development based on students’ interests (Lara & Vess, 2014).
Career exploration
People of all ages are encouraged to use the IP to learn about themselves and the interests that
underlie different careers (Chauhan, 2019). The Interest Profiler can serve as a springboard for
self-discovery and exploration about the world of work. Young people who have not yet entered
the labor market can benefit by taking the IP to explore part-time jobs, summer work, and other
experiences that fit their interests. Students can also use their IP results to conduct informational
interviews to learn about the nature of work from people already working in different careers. In
addition, clients are encouraged to retake the IP over time to examine whether their interests
have changed with age and experience. The IP is regularly updated to ensure that it keeps up
with the latest technology and trends in occupations and workforce development. The IP also
allows individuals to relate their interest assessment results to the requirements of occupations in
the local labor market.
Career decision-making
The Interest Profiler can be used to inform a variety of career decisions that people face across
the life span. For example, high school students must choose whether to attend college, complete
vocational training, or enter the labor market. College students must decide on a field of study
and job to pursue after graduation. Adults at all ages face career decisions such as whether to
leave an organization or pursue a second career. Because these decisions have a major impact on

National Center for O*NET Development

9

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
people’s quality of life, they should be as well-informed as possible. The IP can provide useful
direction and guidance for individuals making career decisions. Research shows that interest fit
is a strong predictor of several aspects of career success, including job performance, income, and
occupational prestige (Neumann, Olitsky, & Robbins, 2009; Nye et al., 2017; Rounds & Su,
2014). Of course, interest fit is one consideration among several others that determine how
successful people are in their careers. Clients are encouraged to use the IP in tandem with other
assessments (e.g., values and abilities) when making career decisions. In addition to using the
web-based version delivered through My Next Move, private and public organizations and
application developers are encouraged to incorporate the IP using O*NET Web Services
(https://services.onetcenter.org/).
Research Applications with the O*NET Interest Profiler
The Interest Profiler can be used for a variety of research purposes. Institutions using the IP as a
decision-making aid for career or educational guidance may wish to study the benefits of its use
for outcomes such as career readiness or decision-making confidence (e.g., Koys, 2017;
Metzinger & Berg, 2015). Research studies can also utilize the IP to assess outcomes associated
with interest fit/misfit. Participants’ interest scores can be compared to the interests associated
with their academic major or career to provide an index of person-environment fit. Occupational
Interest Profiles (OIP’s) from O*NET are available for use as a standardized measure of
vocational interests at the occupation-level. Researchers can investigative whether individuals
with higher levels of fit experience greater satisfaction, performance, or retention in their
academic or career environment (e.g., Earl, 2018; Phan & Rounds, 2018; Wiegand, 2018).
In addition to the possibilities described above, prior research has utilized the Interest Profiler in
a variety of other ways. Studies using the IP have examined research questions related to the
structure of vocational interests (e.g., Tay, Su, & Rounds, 2011), measurement models for
interests (Tay, Drasgow, Rounds, & Williams, 2009), the interest profiles of professionals
working in specific careers (Neukrug, Sparkman, & Moe, 2017), and associations between
interests and other individual differences (e.g., personality, values, skills, and abilities; Anthoney
& Armstrong, 2010; Almeida, Ahmetoglu, & Chamorro-Premuzic, 2014; Dobson, Gardner,
Metx, & Gore, 2014; Nagel, Watts, Murphy, & Lilienfeld). Organizations can also use the
Interest Profiler for research aimed at better understanding the extent to which employees enjoy
performing their job tasks. Such studies could inform management practices or job crafting
within organizations (e.g., Barrick & Parks-Leduc, 2019). In summary, researchers and
practitioners are encouraged to use the Interest Profiler, technical reports, and OIP data for a
variety of research-related purposes.

National Center for O*NET Development

10

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT
References
Almeida, P. I., Ahmetoglu, G., & Chamorro-Premuzic, T. (2014). Who wants to be an
entrepreneur? The relationship between vocational interests and individual differences in
entrepreneurship. Journal of Career Assessment, 22(1), 102-112.
American Educational Research Association, American Psychological Association, & National
Council on Measurement in Education (Eds.). (2014). Standards for educational and
psychological testing.
Anthoney, S. F., & Armstrong, P. I. (2010). Individuals and environments: Linking ability and
skill ratings with interests. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 57(1), 36-51.
Armstrong, P. I., Smith, T. J., Donnay, D. A., & Rounds, J. (2004). The Strong Ring: A Basic
Interest Model of Occupational Structure. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 51(3),
299-313.
Barrick, M. R., & Parks-Leduc, L. (2019). Selection for Fit. Annual Review of Organizational
Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 6, 171-193.
Chauhan, R. S. (2019). Occupation Exploration: Using O* NET in the Management
Classroom. Management Teaching Review, 4(1), 79-88.
Day, S. X, & Rounds, J. (1998). The universality of vocational interest structure among
racial/ethnic minorities. American Psychologist, 53, 728-736.
Dobson, L. K., Gardner, M. K., Metz, A. J., & Gore Jr, P. A. (2014). The relationship between
interests and values in career decision making: The need for an alternative method of
measuring values. Journal of Career Assessment, 22(1), 113-122.
Earl., K. A. (2018). Should I Stay or Should I Go? Interests, Values, Fit, and Retention of
Engineering Students (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. Retrieved from ProQuest Dissertations and Theses.
Holland, J. L. (1958). A personality inventory employing occupational titles. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 42, 336–342. http://dx.doi.org/10 .1037/h0047330
Holland, J. L. (1997). Making vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and work
environments (3rd ed.). Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources.
Koys, D. J. (2017). Using the Department of Labor’s “My Next Move” to improve career
preparedness. Journal of Management Education, 41(1), 94-117.
Lara, T. M., & Vess, L. (2014). Using O* NET in Career Counseling: College Students' Initial
Career Choices. Career Planning & Adult Development Journal, 30(4), 36-51.

National Center for O*NET Development

11

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT

Metzinger, C., & Berg, C. (2015). Work readiness tools for young adults with chronic
conditions. Work, 52(3), 605-615.
Nagel, M. G., Watts, A. L., Murphy, B. A., & Lilienfeld, S. O. (2018). Psychopathy and
interests: Implications of psychopathic personality traits for vocational and avocational
preferences. Personality Disorders: Theory, Research, and Treatment, 9(5), 484-489.
National Center for O*NET Development (2010). Updating the O*NET SOC Taxonomy:
Incorporating the 2010 SOC Structure. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/Taxonomy2010_Summary.pdf
Neukrug, E., Sparkman, N., & Moe, J. (2017). The Holland code of members of the national
organization for human services: a preliminary study of human services
professionals. Journal of Employment Counseling, 54(4), 146-155.
Neumann, G. R., Olitsky, N. H., & Robbins, S. B. (2009). Job congruence, academic
achievement, and earnings. Labour Economics, 16(5), 503–509.
Nye, C. D., Su, R., Rounds, J., & Drasgow, F. (2017). Interest congruence and performance:
Revisiting recent meta-analytic findings. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 98, 138-151.
Office of Management and Budget (2000). Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) System.
Phan, W. M. J., & Rounds, J. (2018). Examining the duality of Holland's RIASEC types:
Implications for measurement and congruence. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 106,
22-36.
Rounds, J., Armstrong, P. I., Liao, H. Y., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2008). Second generation
occupational interest profiles for the O* NET system: Summary. U.S. Department of
Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/SecondOIP_Summary.pdf
Rounds, J., & Su, R. (2014). The nature and power of interests. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 23(2), 98-103.
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2013). Occupational interest profiles for new and
emerging occupations in the O* NET system: Summary. U.S. Department of Labor
National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/OIP_NewEmerging.pdf
Stoll, G., Rieger, S., Lüdtke, O., Nagengast, B., Trautwein, U., & Roberts, B. W. (2017).
Vocational interests assessed at the end of high school predict life outcomes assessed 10
years later over and above IQ and Big Five personality traits. Journal of Personality and
Social Psychology, 113(1), 167–184.

National Center for O*NET Development

12

CHAPTER 1: INTEREST ASSESSMENT

Su, R., Stoll, G., & Rounds, J. (2018). The nature of interests: Toward a unifying theory of
Trait-State Interest Dynamics. In C. D. Nye, & J. Rounds (Eds.), Vocational interests:
Rethinking their role in understanding workplace behavior and practice. SIOP
organizational Frontiers series. New York, NY: Routledge.
Su, R., Tay, L., Liao, H.-Y., Zhang, Q., & Rounds, J. (2019). Toward a Dimensional Model of
Vocational Interests. Journal of Applied Psychology. Advance online publication.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/apl0000373
Tay, L., Drasgow, F., Rounds, J., & Williams, B. A. (2009). Fitting measurement models to
vocational interest data: Are dominance models ideal?. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 94(5), 1287-1304.
Tay, L., Su, R., & Rounds, J. (2011). People–things and data–ideas: Bipolar dimensions? Journal
of Counseling Psychology, 58(3), 424-440.
US Department of Labor (2018). Employment and Training Administration O*NET® Data
Collection Program, 2018; Available at:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/omb2018/Supporting_StatementA.pdf
Wiegand, J., P. (2018) Not All Misfit is Equal: A Re-Examination of Vocational Interest Fit and
Job Satisfaction (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. Retrieved from ProQuest Dissertations and Theses.

National Center for O*NET Development

13

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
CHAPTER 2
Interest Profiler Forms, Versions, and Linkage to Occupations
Kevin A. Hoff and Hannah S. Nelson
University of Houston
This chapter provides an overview of the history and development of the O*NET Interest
Profiler, covering the following major topics:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The history of the Interest Profiler from 1999 to 2019
How the interest items were developed to represent work in the United States
An overview of the three main forms of the Interest Profiler
Existing technical reports supporting psychometric properties and item development
Development of Occupational Information Profiles (OIPS) for the O*NET-SOC system
The process for linking client’s IP results to OIPs using computer algorithms

O*NET researchers began with a model (Holland, 1997) and a large, representative pool of
interest items covering work in the United States. Because the items were well crafted and
representative of work, researchers were able to develop three Interest Profiler (IP) forms
assessing facets of Holland's RIASEC types. The three main forms of the IP each have different
versions designed for use in applied settings. The primary difference between the three forms is
the number of items and delivery format. The IP Long Form contains 180 items and was retired
in September 2018. Its replacements are the IP Short Form and Mini-IP. The Short Form
contains 60 items and is available in paper-and-pencil format and delivered electronically
through the My Next Move and Mi Proximo Paso websites. The Mini-IP contains 30 items and is
designed for use with mobile applications. Table 1 provides an overview of all O*NET Interest
Profiler instruments and versions.

National Center for O*NET Development

14

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Table 1. O*NET Interest Profiler Forms, Versions, and Corresponding Technical Reports
Form
Version
Items Scoring

Interest Profiler Long Form
(IP Long Form)

Interest Profiler Short Form
(IP Short Form)

Paper-and-pencil (P & P)

180

Self-scored

Computerized

180

Computerized

Paper-and-pencil (P & P)

60

Self-scored

Web-based version, English- and
Spanish-language

60

Computer-score
d

Technical Report
Supporting Psychometric
Properties
Rounds, Walker, Day,
Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin
(1999)
Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith,
Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin
(1999)
Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Lewis, &
Gregory (2018)
Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin
(2010)

Mini Interest Profiler
Mobile version
30
Computer-score Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, &
(Mini-IP)
d
Lewis (2016)
Note. The IP Short Form, Web-based version is delivered through the My Next Move and Mi Proximo Paso. The IP Short Form and
Mini-IP are available for developer integration through O*NET Web Services/Technical Documentation. The IP Long Form was
retired in September 2018.

National Center for O*NET Development

15

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
History of the Interest Profiler Development
The O*NET Interest Profiler (IP) has a 20-year history beginning with the development of the
180-item, self-scored, paper-and-pencil form (Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin,
1999a). Shortly afterwards the IP was computerized (Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert, Lewis, &
Rivkin, 1999b). The IP Long Form was retired in September 2018 and has been replaced by the
IP Short Form and Mini-IP. In 2010, a 60-item short form of the IP was developed for use in
settings where it is helpful to have an interest measure that can be completed in a shorter period
of time and is more suitable for web-based delivery (Rounds, Su, Lewis, and Rivkin, 2010). Use
of the Interest Profiler has increased dramatically after the introduction of the Short Form
Web-based measure on the My Next Move site. Recently, a paper-and pencil (P & P) version of
the Short Form was developed that can be administered in settings without computer or
internet-access (Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Gregory, & Lewis, 2018). In 2016, a 30-item Mini Interest
Profiler (Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, & Lewis, 2016) was developed for use with mobile devices.
Interest Item Development
Interest Profiler items are updated to represent a broad range of work performed in different
occupations. Item development for the Interest Profiler began with the creation of an initial list of
569 items covering a wide range of work activities and occupations (Lewis & Rivkin, 1999; see
also Chapter 4). The initial list was created by developing new items and compiling existing
items from existing interest inventories supported and/or developed by the U.S Department of
Labor (i.e., the USES Interest Inventory, the Interest Checklist, and the Job Search Inventory,
New York State Job Service, 1985). Trained judges critically reviewed items from existing
inventories to remove non-work activities and outdated or biased items that may be offensive to
individuals or subgroups.
The initial item list was used in a series of validation studies which eventually led to the creation
of the 180-item Long Form (Rounds et al, 1999a; 1999b). The 180 items meet high standards
that are among the most comprehensive in the field of vocational interest measurement.
Specifically, each item passed a series of seven screens, including retranslation, sensitivity,
comprehensibility, familiarity, training requirement, duplication, and copyright. The six RIASEC
scales of the Long Form each contain 30 items, which serve as the backbone for the Short-Form
and Mini-IP.
The IP Short-Form and Mini-IP were both developed with the goal of reducing the time required
to complete the assessment while retaining psychometric properties. The IP Short Form has
10-items per RIASEC scale, while the Mini-IP has 5-items per scale. The results from a series of
validation studies support the psychometric properties (reliability and validity) of the interest
items and corresponding RIASEC scales. Clients who take the Interest Profiler multiple times
will receive similar results on each occasion. In addition, clients’ results show consistent patterns
of correlations with other reputable interest inventories and the structure of the interest scales
adhere to the RIASEC model (Holland, 1997).

National Center for O*NET Development

16

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Interest Profiler Forms
For each form (Long, Short, Mini) and version (Paper-and-Pencil, Web-based) of the Interest
Profiler, research has been conducted to evaluate the psychometric properties of the RIASEC
scores. Table 2 summarizes the ongoing series of research reports supporting the psychometric
properties of each form and version of the IP. Table 2 also summarizes research reports related to
interest profile data on O*NET OnLine. All research reports are available for download in the
online O*NET Resource Center (https://www.onetcenter.org/research.html?c=IP_CIP).
Interest Profiler (IP) Long Form
The Interest Profiler Long Form was introduced in 1999 as a replacement for the USES Interest
Inventory (U.S. Department of Labor, 1981) and the Interest Checklist (U.S. Department of
Labor, 1979). Four primary goals were addressed: (a) create an instrument that reliably and
accurately measures the Holland (1985) typology, (b) develop a fair and unbiased instrument to
ensure that language and content was inoffensive and familiar to the population of client users,
(c) provide clients with examples of work activities representing the entire world of work, and
(d) develop a self-administered, self-interpreted instrument.
Eight research phases were conducted in support of the development of the instrument, each of
which required multiple steps and the participation of a wide variety of staff, contractors, and
pilot sites (Lewis & Rivkin, 1999). Extensive efforts were made to include client and counselor
input at each stage of the development process. Studies were also conducted to provide construct
validity and reliability evidence (Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999). Shortly
after the paper-and-pencil version was developed, a computerized version of IP Long Form was
released (Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999). The computerized version
did not require self-scoring and allowed for a more complex algorithm to match clients and
occupations (McCloy, Campbell, Oswald, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999). A unique strength of the IP’s
matching algorithm is that it utilizes the client’s entire interest profile to match results to
complete Occupational Interest Profiles (Gregory & Lewis, 2016; Kroustalis, Lewis, & Rivkin,
2010).
Interest Profiler (IP) Short Form
The Interest Profiler Short Form was introduced in 2010. The Short Form, Web-based version is
currently delivered through the My Next Move website (https://www.mynextmove.org/). The
instrument is also available in the Spanish language through the Mi Proximo Paso website
(https://www.miproximopaso.org/). The primary purpose for developing the measure was to
create a shorter measure that adequately sampled the RIASEC domains while retaining a
hexagonal structure (Rounds, Su, Lewis, and Rivkin, 2010). Brevity is particularly important for
online interest assessments because longer questionnaires can lead to reduced participation rates
and weaker answer quality (e.g., Galesic & Bosnjak, 2009). Short forms are also advantageous in
group counseling and workshop settings where participants take brief assessments and then
discuss results as a group. The IP Short Form Web-based version was developed using iterative
multidimensional scaling and item evaluation from trained judges (see Chapter 4 for further
details).

National Center for O*NET Development

17

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Table 2. Overview of Technical Reports Related to the Development of O*NET Interest Profiler Forms and Versions
Technical Report Title
Year Authors
Interest Profiler
Purpose
Version
Development of the O*NET Interest
1999 Lewis & Rivkin IP Long Form
Introduces IP and describes first seven
Profiler
phases of development
O*NET Interest Profiler: Reliability,
Validity, and Self-Scoring

1999

Rounds,
Walker, Day,
Hubert, Lewis,
& Rivkin

IP Long Form: P & P
version

Summarizes a study evaluating the
psychometric properties of the IP
Long Form P & P and the self-scoring
aspect of the instrument

O*NET Computerized Interest
Profiler: Reliability, Validity, and
Comparability

1999

Rounds,
Mazzeo, Smith,
Hubert, Lewis,
& Rivkin

IP Long Form:
Computerized version

Summarizes research on the
psychometric properties of the IP
Long Form Computerized version and
its comparability with the P & P
version

O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form
Psychometric Characteristics:
Summary

2010

Rounds, Su,
Lewis, &
Rivkin

IP Short Form:
Web-based version

Summarizes initial development
research to create a short form of the
Interest Profiler

Examining the Efficacy of Emoji
Anchors for the O*NET Interest
Profiler Short Form

2016

Rounds, Phan,
Amrhein, &
Lewis

IP Short Form:
Web-based version

Summarizes two studies designed to
test the validity of an emoji-anchored
Interest Profiler Short Form

Development of an O*NET Mini
Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) for Mobile
Devices: Psychometric Characteristics

2016

Rounds, Wee,
Cao, Song, &
Lewis

Mini-IP

Summarizes the developmental
research to create a 30-item Mini
Interest Profiler (Mini-IP)

O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form
Paper-and-Pencil Version: Evaluation
of Self-Scoring and Psychometric
Characteristics

2018

Rounds, Hoff,
Chu, Lewis, &
Gregory

IP Short Form: P & P
version

Summarizes initial research into the
self-scoring accuracy and
psychometric properties of a
Paper-and-Pencil (P & P) version of
the Interest Profiler Short Form

Note. The IP Long Form was retired in September 2018. Its replacements are the IP Short Form and Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

18

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
In 2018, a paper-and-pencil (P & P) version of the Short Form was introduced (Rounds et al.,
2018). The main difference between the P & P version and the Web-based version is the method
of scoring and response scale. For the P & P version, the participant is asked to check activities
they would like to do using a dichotomous response scale. Participants then sum the total number
of checks to compute their scores for each RIASEC scale. This differs from the Web-based
version that uses 5-point, emoji scale anchors (Rounds, Phan, Amrhein, & Lewis, 2016) with
RIASEC scale scores summed and matched to occupations by a computer algorithm. The
self-scoring P & P version of the Interest Profiler is necessary for situations where computers are
unavailable. Sites that need a paper-and-pencil version are, for example, schools and correctional
facilities.
Mini-Interest Profiler (IP)
The Mini-Interest Profiler was introduced in 2016 for use in mobile settings where it is beneficial
to have an interest measure that can be completed rapidly and easily. The Mini-IP helps increase
the accessibility of the O*NET Interest Profiler to a younger, more tech-savvy audience.
The measure was developed using item selection criteria based on Item Response Theory,
RIASEC structural fidelity, content coverage, and gender balance to reduce the length of the
scale (Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, & Lewis, 2016). Five items were selected for each RIASEC
scale to ensure that the final measure was not too short that reliability and validity would be
significantly compromised. Although item reduction comes with an inherent decrease in scale
reliability (Smith, McCarthy, & Anderson, 2000), the Mini-IP is a psychometrically sound
measure. Research has supported the convergent validity of the Mini-IP with the IP Short Form,
as equivalent scales from two measures are highly correlated.
In summary, the Mini-Interest Profiler is more flexible regarding when and where it can be
administered. However, the IP Short Form should still be the preferred measure of choice when
time is less of a constraint. In addition, both forms can be incorporated by application developers
and private and public organizations via O*NET Web Services (https://services.onetcenter.org/)
or by leveraging the available technical reports.

National Center for O*NET Development

19

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) and the O*NET-SOC
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) provide an important link between Interest Profiler client
assessments and the O*NET-SOC System. The O*NET-SOC is based on the Standard
Occupational Classification (SOC) system (National Center for O*NET Development, 2010;
Office of Management and Budget, 2000). The O*NET-SOC 2010 taxonomy includes 1,110
occupational titles, 974 of which represent O*NET occupations for which the O*NET program
collects data. Data and occupational information are collected on a wide variety of variables and
scales, such as occupational characteristics and worker requirements drawn from the O*NET
Content Model (http://www.onetcenter.org/content.html).
As part of the content model, Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) were developed based on
Holland’s (1997) interest-based classification of six work environments—Realistic (R),
Investigative (I), Artistic (A), Social (S), Enterprising (E), and Conventional (C). The
development of OIPs is unique in vocational assessment and classification research, being the
first effort to create full, numerical profiles for occupations, with ratings on all six RIASEC
environments.
Table 3 summarizes technical reports that describe the development of OIPs for O*NET-SOC
occupations. Initial O*NET research on vocational interests and occupational environments was
completed in the late 1990s by Rounds, Smith, Hubert, Lewis, and Rivkin (1999).
Trained subject matter experts with experience in vocational interest research generated ratings
for 1,122 occupations based on the most recent occupational data in the O*NET database.
Each OIP consists of six numerical scores in an invariant order (R-I-A-S-E-C) indicating how
descriptive and characteristic the occupation is for these six work environments. The OIPs
generated by the subject matter experts showed appreciable reliability, structural validity, and
reasonable distribution across occupations supporting the use of Subject Matter Expert (SME)
rating methodology for development of OIPs using RIASEC interests.
After the initial development of OIPs for the O*NET 98 Analyst Database, several important
changes were made to the database structure and content (Rounds, Armstrong, Liao, Lewis, &
Rivkin, 2008). Most importantly, the initial classification system for occupations based on the
Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) classification was converted to the new Standard
Occupational Classification (SOC) system in version 3.0 of the database. In addition, the O*NET
program identified approximately 100 New and Emerging (N & E) Occupations related to High
Growth Industries that needed OIP information. These changes led to the decision to develop
new RIASEC-based OIP data for all occupations in the O*NET database. The same
methodology used for the initial development of OIPs (Rounds et al., 1999) was applied, leading
to the second generation of OIPs for 900+ occupations. The overall mean value for
Goodman-Kruskal’s Gamma (Goodman & Kruskal, 1979) was .76, indicating a high degree of
reliability for the ratings across the occupational analysts. Structural validity evidence for the
OIP ratings showed that the overall pattern of results was consistent with Holland's theoretical
model (Rounds, Armstrong, Liao, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2008).

National Center for O*NET Development

20

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Table 3. Overview of Technical Reports Related to the Development of Occupational Interest
Profiles (OIPs) for O*NET-SOC Occupations
Technical Report Title
Year Authors
Purpose
Development of
1999
Occupational Interest Profiles
for O*NET

Rounds,
Smith,
Hubert,
Lewis, &
Rivkin

Describes the development of
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) for
the 1172 Occupational Units (OUs)
included in O*NET

Second Generation
2008
Occupational Interest Profiles
for the O*NET System:
Summary

Rounds,
Armstrong,
Liao,
Lewis, &
Rivkin

Describes updates in the development of
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs)
since 1999

Occupational Interest Profiles 2013
for New and Emerging
Occupations in the O*NET
System: Summary

Rounds,
Su, Lewis,
& Rivkin

Summarize the effort to populate
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) for
83 O*NET-SOC occupations included
within the O*NET- SOC 2010
Taxonomy

In 2013, OIPs were populated for 83 additional O*NET-SOC occupations that were recently
included within the O*NET- SOC 2010 Taxonomy (National Center for O*NET Development,
2010). Rounds, Su, Lewis, and Rivkin (2013) followed the methodology used by Rounds et al.
(1999) to generate RIASEC interest profiles for the new occupations. The research design for
generating OIPs involved using SMEs to obtain RIASEC score profiles. The study was
composed of three phases: a) initial development of materials for rating the OIPs for the
occupations, b) training the SMEs to use the rating materials in a reliable and accurate manner,
and c) the main rating study in which OIPs for the 83 O*NET occupations were created. To
assess the degree of inter- rater agreement, rater-by-rater cross-classification tables were
constructed using the obtained raw score ratings for each of the RIASEC categories. For each
pair of raters, a separate cross-classification table was constructed. Goodman-Kruskal’s Gamma
(Goodman & Kruskal, 1954) was computed to assess inter-rater agreement. The overall mean
value for Gamma was .86, indicating a high degree of reliability among ratings of the three
occupational analysts and considerable consistency among raters across both the RIASEC
categories and occupations.
In summary, occupational interest profiles were developed for each O*NET-SOC occupation
using ratings from trained subject matter experts following a standardized methodology. The
development of OIPs enables direct linkage of occupations with score profiles generated from
the IP Short Form and Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

21

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Person-Occupation Interest Matching
The main goal of the Interest Profiler (IP) is to identify a set of O*NET-SOC occupations that
best correspond to a client’s interests. To meet this goal, a computer algorithm compares a
client’s assessment results from the IP to O*NET Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs). Table 4
summarizes the technical reports describing the development of linking procedures between
client assessment profiles and OIPs.
Table 4. Overview of Technical Reports Linking Client Assessment Profiles from the Interest
Profiler to Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs)
Technical Report Title
Year Authors
Purpose
Linking Client Assessment
Profiles to O*NET
Occupational Profiles

1999

McCloy,
Campbell,
Lewis, &
Rivkin

Describes how client assessment
profiles (including the O*NET IP) are
linked to O*NET Occupational Unit
profiles

Linking Client Assessment
Profiles to O*NET®
Occupational Profiles Within
the O*NET Interest Profiler
Short Form

2010

Kroustalis,
Lewis, &
Rivkin

Provides an update of McCloy,
Campbell, Lewis, & Rivkin (1999)
focusing on linking IP Short-Form
profiles to Occupational Interest Profiles
(OIPs)

Linking Client Assessment
Profiles to O*NET
Occupational Profiles Within
the O*NET Interest Profiler
Short Form and Mini Interest
Profiler (Mini-IP)

2016

Gregory &
Lewis

Provides an update of Kroustalis, Lewis,
& Rivkin (2010) focusing on linking IP
Short-Form and Mini-IP profiles to
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs)

The O*NET-SOC occupations deemed most promising are those with OIPs calculated to be most
similar with the client interest profile (Gregory & Lewis, 2016). A computer algorithm
determines profile similarity for the Mini-IP and IP Short Form, Web-based version (Englishand Spanish-language). The computerized scoring of the Mini-IP and IP Short Form, Web-based
version allows for a complex array of mathematical calculations to be performed virtually
instantaneously.
When linking a client’s interests to OIPs, it is important that the comparisons are based on the
shape or pattern of the scores, rather than the absolute level or amount of each score. In other
words, the goal is to direct a client to occupations that tend to have the same high and low
interests (i.e., the same pattern). There is no concern about directing a client to explore
occupations that are “under” or “over” the level of interest.

National Center for O*NET Development

22

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
When a client generates a score profile from the Mini-IP and IP Short Form, the correlation
coefficient serves as the index of correspondence. The correlation between a client’s profile (X)
and an occupational profile (Y) is given mathematically as follows:

where
and
and σX and σY are the means and standard deviations of X and Y, respectively,
and N is the number of scores to be correlated (i.e., the number of scores constituting the client’s
profile). Note that σ represents variability of the sample at hand and uses a divisor of N. The
correlation indexes the similarity of the shape (but not the level) between the client and
occupation profiles. The correlation can range from -1.0 to +1.0. A correlation of +1.0 indicates
that the rank orders of client and O*NET-SOC occupational profile scores are identical, whereas
a correlation of -1.0 indicates that the rank order of client scores is opposite the rank order of
O*NET-SOC occupational profile scores.
To demonstrate how the correlation coefficient is used, Figure 1 contains two O*NET-SOC
occupation-specific interest profiles and one client interest profile. The client profile correlates
perfectly with the profiles of occupation 1 and occupation 4 (r = 1.0). Therefore, O*NET-SOC
occupations 1 and 4 would be targeted as promising areas for career exploration. Figure 2
contains the same client profile, but two different O*NET-SOC occupation profiles. While the
level of these O*NET-SOC occupational patterns are similar to the client profile, there is less
correspondence between the pattern of client profile and the profiles for occupation 2 and
occupation 3 (r = -1.0 and -.27, respectively). Therefore, these occupations would not be targeted
for career exploration.

National Center for O*NET Development

23

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS

Figure 1. Sample Client and Occupational Profiles for the O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form
and Mini-IP: High Correlations

Figure 2. Sample Client and Occupational Profiles for the O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form
and Mini-IP: Low Correlations

National Center for O*NET Development

24

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
After calculating the correlation coefficient between the client score profile and each
O*NET-SOC occupation score profile, the scoring program applies a series of decision rules to
display results. Occupations that satisfy the decision rules appear on the client’s score report, as
described below:
1. Occupations are presented by Job Zone.
2. O*NET-SOC occupations for which the client/O*NET-SOC occupation profile
correlation is notably high are identified as “very strong” matches.
3. The “very strong” match cutoff denotes correlation coefficients (r) of .729 or above,
which are statistical significant with a p-value less than .05 from a one-tailed significance
test. The “strong” match cutoff represents correlation coefficients ranging from of .608 to
.728, which have p-values greater than .05 but less than .10 from a one-tailed
significance test.
4. There are no limits on the number of O*NET-SOC occupations that may be suggested
within a Job Zone.
5. The goal of the scoring program is to list a total of 10 “very strong” or “strong”
occupations displayed per Job Zone. If there are not 10 “very strong” or “strong” matches
to the client’s interest profile available, the scoring program displays the occupations
with the next highest available correlations that are not negative.
6. Occupations that are “very strong” matches are labeled as “Best Fit” within the Short
Form and Mini-IP. “Strong” matches are labeled as “Great Fit.” Occupations with
correlations greater than or equal to .000 and less than .608 are labeled as “Good Fit.”
Results are sorted by fit category and presented alphabetically within each category.
7. There may be some instances where fewer than 10 occupations are displayed per Job
Zone, as only a small number of occupations may be linked to the client’s interests. If
fewer than 7 occupations are presented per Job Zone, the following language is displayed
on the score report:
“Within this Job Zone, a small number of careers match your interest profile.
Click on a different Job Zone above to see more careers linked to your interest
profile.”
8. Additionally, there may be occasions where no occupations are linked to a client’s
interest profile within a Job Zone. If this occurs, the following language is displayed on
the score report:
“Within this Job Zone, there are no careers that match your interest profile. Click
on a different Job Zone above to see careers linked to your interest profile.”

National Center for O*NET Development

25

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
9. In the event that a client responds “strongly dislike” to all items on the IP, his or her
profile is likely invalid. The client is instructed to review his/her responses or to re-take
the tool. If this occurs, the following language is displayed on the score report:
“You answered "strongly dislike" to all questions. Your results may not reflect
your interests. Please consider retaking the Interest Profiler at a different time.
10. Clients who would like to explore additional careers beyond those identified by their
interest profile are provided with a “Find More Careers” option. This option allows the
client to see a list of careers related to a single interest area of choice. Occupations are
linked to each individual interest area based on their interest high-point codes.
In summary, the correlation coefficient is the statistical index used to determine correspondence
between a client’s interest profile and O*NET OIPs. A series of decision rules are then used to
display O*NET-SOC occupations with similar interest profiles to the client’s profile. By linking
clients’ interests with occupations that are “very strong” (i.e., “best fit”) and “strong matches”
(i.e., “great fit”), the IP Short Form and Mini-IP can help clients consider career options, think
about career education and training, and transition into new occupations more smoothly.

National Center for O*NET Development

26

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
References
Holland, J. L. (1985). The Self-Directed Search professional manual. Odessa, FL: Psychological
Assessment Resources.
Holland, J. L. (1997). Making vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and work
environments (3rd ed.). Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources.
Galesic, M., & Bosnjak, M. (2009). Effects of questionnaire length on participation and
indicators of response quality in a web survey. Public Opinion Quarterly, 73(2), 349-360.
Goodman, L.A. & Kruskal, W.H. (1954). Measures of association for cross classifications.
Journal of the American Statistical Association, 49, 732-764.
Gregory, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Linking client assessment profiles to O* NET® occupational
profiles within the O* NET Interest Profiler Short Form and Mini Interest Profiler
(Mini-IP). U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/Mini-IP_Linking.pdf
Kroustalis, C., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). Linking client assessment profiles to O* NET®
occupational profiles within the O* NET Interest Profiler Short Form. U.S. Department
of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IPSF_Linking.pdf
Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of the O* NET Interest Profiler. U.S. Department
of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IP.pdf
McCloy, R., Campbell, J., Oswald, F. L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Linking client
assessment profiles to O* NET™ occupational profiles. U.S. Department of Labor
National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IPSF_Linking.pdf
National Center for O*NET Development (2010). Updating the O*NET SOC Taxonomy:
Incorporating the 2010 SOC Structure. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/Taxonomy2010_Summary.pdf
Office of Management and Budget (2000). Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) System.
Peterson, N., Mumford, M., Borman, W., Jeanneret, P., & Fleishman, E. (1999). An occupational
information system for the 21st century: The development of O*NET. Washington, DC:
American Psychological Association.
Rounds, J., Armstrong, P. I., Liao, H. Y., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2008). Second generation
occupational interest profiles for the O* NET system: Summary. U.S. Department of

National Center for O*NET Development

27

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/SecondOIP_Summary.pdf
Rounds, J., Hoff, K. A., Chu, C., Lewis, P., &. Gregory, C. (2018). O*NET® Interest Profiler
Short Form Paper-and-Pencil Version: Evaluation of Self-Scoring and Psychometric
Characteristics. U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved
from: https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IPSF_PP.pdf
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S.E., Smith, T.J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999b). O*NET
Computerized Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. U.S. Department
of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/CIP_RVC.html
Rounds, J., Phan, W. M. J., Amrhein, R, & Lewis, P. (2016). Examining the Efficacy of Emoji
Anchors for the O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form. U.S. Department of Labor National
O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_Emoji.html
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET Interest Profiler Short form
psychometric characteristics: Summary. U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET
Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_Psychometric.html
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2013). Occupational interest profiles for new and
emerging occupations in the O* NET system: Summary. U.S. Department of Labor
National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/OIP_NewEmerging.pdf
Rounds, J., Walker, C. M., Day, S.X., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999a). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. U.S. Department of Labor
National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_RVS.html
Rounds, J., Wee, C. J., Cao, M., Song, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Development of an O*NET®
Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) for mobile devices: Psychometric characteristics. U.S.
Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/reports/Mini-IP.html
Smith, G. T., McCarthy, D. M., & Anderson, K. G. (2000). On the sins of short-form
development. Psychological Assessment, 12(1), 102-111.
U.S. Department of Labor. (1979). Interest Check List. Washington, DC: US Government
Printing Office.

National Center for O*NET Development

28

CHAPTER 2: INTEREST PROFILER FORMS
U.S. Department of Labor. (1981). USES Interest Inventory. Washington, DC: US Government
Printing Office.

National Center for O*NET Development

29

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
CHAPTER 3
Test Administration, Scoring, and Reporting for the Interest Profiler
Kevin A. Hoff and Kenneth E. Granillo-Velasquez
University of Houston
This chapter discusses key aspects related to the applied use of the O*NET Interest Profiler,
including:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Appropriate ages for testing
The amount of time required to complete each form of the Interest Profiler
Response formats
The scoring system for each form of the Interest Profiler
A guide for interpreting Interest Profiler results and exploring related careers
Additional recommendations for using the Interest Profiler in applied settings

Readers interested in comprehensive information concerning item development and validity
evidence for the Interest Profiler can find additional details in chapters 4 (Development) and 6
(Validity).
Appropriate Ages for Interest Assessment
The O*NET Interest Profiler can be used with clients at a wide range of ages. The IP is often
used with high school students, college students, and adults facing career transitions. Older
adults approaching retirement can also benefit from taking the IP to connect their interests to
new types of work or leisure activities. While there is no upper age-limit for use of the IP,
caution should be taken when using the instrument with children age 14 or below. All of the
items for the Interest Profiler and its various forms were developed with an eighth-grade reading
level as the goal (Dale & Rourke, 1981). Two sets of readers independently reviewed all of the
items to ensure that the words were comprehensible at an eight-grade reading level (when
students are approximately 14-years-old).
In addition to the reading level, a lower age-limit of approximately 14-years-old is recommended
because responding to interest assessments reliably requires a certain degree of experience and
knowledge about the world of work. To accurately and reliably assess interests, clients must
know something about the work activities that characterize different occupations, and whether
they would like to actually perform those activities. Without sufficient knowledge about the
world of work, perceptions about different careers may be unduly influenced by occupational
stereotypes and perceived gender norms. The IP can still be useful with younger populations
(i.e., children and students under the age of 14), but the focus should be on career and
educational exploration. In other words, the IP can serve as a helpful tool for young students to
learn about the interests associated with different jobs while acknowledging that interest
development is an ongoing, lifelong process. Asking children about their career aspirations can

National Center for O*NET Development

30

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
also be a productive exercise to introduce them to the world of work and the interests associated
with different jobs.
Research shows that the stability of vocational interests generally increases with age throughout
adolescence and young adulthood (Hoff, Song, Einarsdóttir, Briley, & Rounds, 2019; Low,
Yoon, Roberts, & Rounds, 2005). This means that on average, 18-year-old clients who take the
IP at two time points will receive more similar scores across their two assessments compared to
14-year-old clients who take the IP twice with the same amount of time in-between assessments.
Prior to age 14, the stability of vocational interests is low, such that younger clients may receive
different results over relatively short amounts of time. Although results may change, it may be
beneficial for adolescents and young adults to take the Interest Profiler multiple times to compare
results and see how their interests have changed over a period of 6 months or several years.
Adults approaching the retirement transition may also wish to take the IP to reassess their
interests to help plan retirement activities.
Time Required
The amount of time required to complete the Interest Profiler varies across the three main forms
and the different versions of each form. The 30-item Mini-IP is the shortest of the instruments
and uses only computerized scoring. Depending on the client’s reading level, the Mini-IP can be
completed in 3-15 minutes. Additional time should be allotted to explore the O*NET OnLine
website based on one’s results.
The 60-item Short Form Web-based version can be completed in 5-20 minutes. The
paper-and-pencil version of the Short Form may require additional time to score the instrument.
Nonetheless, the self-scoring for the Short Form is intuitive and easy. In addition, large groups
with limited internet or computer access will likely find it easier and quicker to administer the P
& P version of the Short Form compared to the Web-based version.
Response Format
The Long Form IP used a three-point response format where participants were asked for “like,”
“dislike,” or “unsure” responses to the items. Subscale scores (corresponding to the six RIASEC
categories) were then computed by summing the number of “like” items endorsed within each
category (“dislike” and “not sure” endorsements did not contribute to subscale scores).
With the Short-Form IP, there is a difference in response formats between the P & P and
Web-based versions. The P & P version uses a dichotomous response format where participants
check the activities they would like to do and then sum the total number of checks to compute
their scores for each RIASEC scale. This differs from the Web-based version of Short Form that
uses 5-point, emoji scale anchors (Rounds, Phan, Amrhein, & Lewis, 2016) with RIASEC scale
scores summed by a computer algorithm. The Mini-IP also uses 5-point emoji scale anchors and
is scored using a computer algorithm (Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, & Lewis, 2016).

National Center for O*NET Development

31

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
Scoring
Each of the IP forms can be used as a self-scored or computer-based assessment. The
self-scoring systems for the paper-and-pencil (P & P) versions are intuitive and straightforward,
while the computerized versions are scored automatically through computer algorithms.
Automated Scoring Systems
In the case of the computerized assessment for the Short Form and Mini-IP, a five-point response
format is used (note that the computerized Long Form retained a three-point response format). In
the five-point response format, participants indicate their interest in each activity from 0 =
“strongly dislike,” 1 = “dislike,” 2 = “unsure,” 3 = “like,” and 4 = “strongly like.” Scores are
computed by summing responses for each of the six Holland types, with a score range of 0 to 40
for the Short and 0 to 20 for the Mini. For the Long Form IP, subscale scores (corresponding to
the six RIASEC categories) are computed by summing the number of “like” items endorsed
within each category (“dislike” and “not sure” endorsements do not contribute to subscale
scores). Scores for the RIASEC subscales may range from 0 to 30.
Self-Scoring for the IP Short Form: Paper-and-Pencil Version
The Interest Profiler Short Form paper-and-pencil version was developed so that there would be
few possibilities for errors to occur during manually scoring. The instrument is completed on a
single sheet (one-sided). The 60 items are organized into color-coded rows with two columns of
5 items for each RIASEC type. The participant sums the number of checked boxes for each
RIASEC scale then reports the three interest areas with the highest scores as their interest profile.
Thus, only simple counting skills (number of boxes checked) are necessary. Identifying and
transferring RIASEC scores to a rank order of highest score to lowest score is clearly explained
on the survey (for download links, see https://www.onetcenter.org/IP.html#paper-and-pencil).
Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Gregory, & Lewis (2018) found that respondents have few difficulties
adding their scores for each scale and reporting the correct RIASEC high-point code. To evaluate
self-scoring accuracy of the instrument, the researchers compared self-scored interests to their
actual scores coded by the research team. Among two samples of participants who took the IP
Short Form P & P version (N1 = 421, N2 = 140), only 1-3 participants, depending on the
RIASEC scale, failed to correctly record summed scores for a RIASEC scale (Rounds et al.,
2018; Tables 3 and 4, p. 17-18). A second possible self-scoring error concerns participants’
ability to accurately report their high-point code based on the participants summed codes from
the six RIASEC scales. The researchers compared the accuracy of self-reported high-point codes
to the actual high-point code scored by the research team. Results indicate very high accuracy in
the primary codes obtained from self-scored reports, as over 97% of participants in the two
samples correctly listed their high-point code (Rounds et al., 2018; Tables 5 and 6, p. 19-20).
Overall, results of self-scoring analyses indicate that the IP Short Form P & P is easy to score
and shows higher accuracy rates of self-scoring compared to other well-known interest
inventories (e.g., Self-Directed Search, Miller, 1997) and self-scoring psychological assessments
(Simons, Goddard, & Patton, 2002).

National Center for O*NET Development

32

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
Self-Scoring for the Mini-IP
The Mini-IP was developed as a web-based measure intended for use with mobile devices, but
can also be used as a self-scored, paper-and-pencil assessment. If used as a self-scored
assessment, a dichotomous scoring system is recommended, similar to the IP Short Form.
Participants are asked to sum the number of checked boxes for each RIASEC scale (out of 5
items), then report the three interest areas with the highest scores as their interest profile.
Self-Scoring for the IP Long Form: Paper-and-Pencil Version
Rounds et al (1999b) found that respondents receive similar scores on the IP, regardless of the
test version (computerized vs. P&P) taken. In addition, examination of clients’ ability to
self-score the O*NET Interest Profiler revealed a low percentage of scoring errors and, more
importantly, a minimal presence of misclassifications.
Interpreting Results from the O*NET Interest Profiler
Clients can use their results from the Interest Profiler for a variety of purposes related to career
and educational planning or decision-making. For example, clients can use their IP results to
learn more about their work interests, connect their interests to job tasks and work activities,
explore different occupations, and experience hands-on activities related to their career interest
choices. My Next Move and O*NET OnLine provide a variety of tools to assist individuals in
interpreting and applying their IP results for different purposes.
After taking the IP, clients receive an individualized interest profile that describes the relative
strength of their interests in the six RIASEC areas. Although results vary from person-to-person,
most individuals have stronger interests in certain career areas compared to others. An
individual’s interest profile describes the relative strength of their interests in the six RIASEC
domains. Interest profiles are rank-ordered such that the first letter reflects the interest scale with
the highest score, followed by the second and third highest scores.
The screenshot in Figure 1 displays an example results page from the IP Short Form, Web-based
version, delivered through My Next Move (https://www.mynextmove.org/). In this example, the
client’s complete interest profile is SIAREC because Social is the highest score (35), followed by
Investigative (34), Artistic (28), Realistic (24), Enterprising (12), and Conventional (8). From
this page, clients can click on the blue hyperlinks to learn more about any of the RIASEC
interests in their interest profile.

National Center for O*NET Development

33

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING

Figure 1. An example results page from the IP Short-Form, Web-based version.
After learning more about the RIASEC scales, clients are asked to select a Job Zone that
represents the amount of education, experience, and training that they wish to pursue or have
already obtained. Job zones are important because each RIASEC interest category contains
occupations that require differing levels of preparation. To explore careers, clients will need to
choose a Current or Future Job Zone. A useful exercise is to compare career options within
one’s current job zone versus a future job zone if a higher zone is likely to be achieved in the
future. Figure 2 displays a screenshot of the page in which clients are asked to select one of five
current/future job zones.

Figure 2. The ‘Select a Job Zone’ page following the initial display of IP results.
In this example, the client initially selected Job Zone Three, which describes jobs that require a
medium level of preparation. On the next page, the client will receive a listing of careers that

National Center for O*NET Development

34

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
match their interests at Job Zone Three. Figure 3 displays a list of careers based on the example
IP results.

Figure 3. A list of careers that match the example interest profile at Job Zone Three.
Depending on the job zone selected, clients will receive different career suggestions that match
their interests. Each career suggestion is linked to an O*NET occupation which provides
extensive information about the occupation, including job tasks, knowledge, values, abilities,
educational requirements, salaries, and more. If clients do not like the careers initially suggested,
they can select a different job zone by moving the slider at the top of the page in Figure 3 (‘Click
to change your job zone’). Figure 4 displays the listing of careers that would be suggested at Job
Zone Five, all of which require extensive preparation.

Figure 4. A list of careers that match the example interest profile at Job Zone Five.

National Center for O*NET Development

35

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
Clients who would like to explore additional careers beyond those identified by their interest
profile can benefit by clicking the “Find More Careers” option (see the lower right side of Figure
4). This option allows clients to see a list of careers related to a single interest area of choice, and
may be particularly useful for clients who received few career choices related to their interests
(i.e., a flat profile). Occupations are linked to each individual interest area based on their interest
high-point codes. Figure 5 displays the next page that would appear if the client selected the
“Find More Careers” option.

Figure 5. Clients can select a single interest area from which to see list of careers.
Clients may wish to explore numerous occupations that match their interests at different job
zones. In combination, vocational interests and job zones provide a highly efficient and effective
method for sorting through the wealth of career information hosted on the O*NET website.
The National Center for O*NET Development also publishes and maintains score reports and
career worksheets for clients taking the paper-pencil-versions of the Interest Profiler. These
resources are designed to help individuals interpret and apply their IP results without the need for
internet access. The O*NET Resource Center contains download links for the complete score
report and careers worksheet for the IP Short Form P & P
(https://www.onetcenter.org/IP.html#paper-and-pencil).
Integration Options
The O*NET Interest Profiler offers a variety of integration options for web- and mobile-based
uses (for complete information, see https://www.onetcenter.org/IP.html#integration).
Organizations and application developers are encouraged to incorporate the IP using O*NET
Web Services (https://services.onetcenter.org/). Developers can access the questions and scoring
algorithm of the Mini-IP through O*NET Web Services. If you wish to develop new assessments
based on the Mini-IP, see the Career Exploration Tools License page
(https://www.onetcenter.org/license_tools.html).

National Center for O*NET Development

36

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
As a web-based tool, the IP Short Form may be of particular interest to developers of websites or
web-enabled applications. There are three main ways of integrating the Interest Profiler Short
Form:
• "deep linking" to the Interest Profiler at My Next Move (https://www.mynextmove.org/)
• adding an IFrame Widget to your site
• providing scores and career suggestions through the O*NET web service API
The Spanish-language IP Short Form from Mi Próximo Paso (https://www.miproximopaso.org/)
can also be added to your site.
Additional Advice on Using the O*NET Interest Profiler
In summary, the O*NET Interest Profiler is an effective tool for students, career seekers, and
organizations and can be used for a variety of applied purposes (Lewis & Rivkin, 1999; Rounds
et al., 2018; Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999; Rounds, Su, Lewis, and
Rivkin, 2010; Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999; Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song,
& Lewis, 2016). Nonetheless, it is important to recognize that vocational interests are one of
many factors that determine career choices and success. The U.S. Department of Labor and
National Center for O*NET Development offer several Career Exploration Tools available
through the O*NET Resource Center (https://www.onetcenter.org/tools.html). Clients are
encouraged to use the Interest Profiler in combination with other assessments (e.g., workplace
readiness skills, abilities, work values) offered at their school or place of work to provide a more
complete understanding of individual differences and career factors that are important to them.

National Center for O*NET Development

37

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
References
Dale, E., & O'Rourke, J. (1981). The living word vocabulary. Chicago: World Book-Childcraft
Inc.
Hoff, K. A., Song, Q. C., Einarsdóttir, S., Briley, D. A., & Rounds, J. (2019) Developmental
structure of interests and personality: A four-wave 8-year longitudinal study. Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology. DOI: 10.1037/pspp0000228
Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of the O* NET Interest Profiler. U.S. Department
of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IP.pdf
Low, K. S. D., Yoon, M., Roberts, B. W., & Rounds, J. (2005). The stability of interests from
early adolescence to middle adulthood: A quantitative review of longitudinal studies.
Psychological Bulletin, 131(5), 713-737.
Miller, M. J. (1997). Error rates on two forms of the Self‐Directed Search and satisfaction with
the results. Journal of Employment Counseling, 34(3), 98-103.
Rounds, J., Hoff, K. A., Chu, C., Lewis, P., &. Gregory, C. (2018). O*NET® Interest Profiler
Short Form Paper-and-Pencil Version: Evaluation of Self-Scoring and Psychometric
Characteristics. U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved
from: https://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IPSF_PP.pdf
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S.E., Smith, T.J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Computerized Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. U.S. Department
of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/CIP_RVC.html
Rounds, J., Phan, W. M. J., Amrhein, R, & Lewis, P. (2016). Examining the Efficacy of Emoji
Anchors for the O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form. U.S. Department of Labor National
O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_Emoji.html
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form
Psychometric Characteristics: Summary. U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET
Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_Psychometric.html
Rounds, J., Walker, C. M., Day, S.X., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. U.S. Department of Labor
National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_RVS.html

National Center for O*NET Development

38

CHAPTER 3: SCORING AND REPORTING
Rounds, J., Wee, C. J., Cao, M., Song, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Development of an O*NET®
Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) for mobile devices: Psychometric characteristics. U.S.
Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/reports/Mini-IP.html
Simons, R., Goddard, R., & Patton, W. (2002). Hand-scoring error rates in psychological testing.
Assessment, 9(3), 292-300.

National Center for O*NET Development

39

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT

CHAPTER 4
Development of Items and Interest Profiler Forms
Colin J. M. Wee and James Rounds
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
This chapter describes the iterative development of the O*NET Interest Profiler from 1999 to
2018, and how this measure was refined for multiple settings and platforms: paper-and-pencil,
standalone computer (retired), web-based, Spanish, and mobile (for a current overview, see
https://www.onetcenter.org/IP.html). The proceeding sections explain the item development for
each version of the Interest Profiler, including:
•
•
•
•
•

The theoretical basis and methodology for item selection
Validation study participants, methods, and analyses
The rigorous and comprehensive standards for screening and selecting final items
Rationales for test format and design
Continued developments to the Interest Profiler

Development of the Interest Profiler Long Form
The U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) Occupational Information Network (O*NET) endeavors
to provide accurate, reliable, and up-to-date career assessment tools that allow students and
workers to explore a range of contemporary jobs based on their interests. By the 1990s, the
vocational assessment instruments used by the DOL were over a decade old. These
measures—the U.S. Employment Service (USES) Interest Inventory (U.S. Department of Labor,
1981) and the Interest Checklist (U.S. Department of Labor, 1979a)—contained dated language
and content, had archaic scoring systems that were inconvenient in self-assessment settings,
lacked adequate data on reliability and validity, and no longer reflected contemporary
advancements in vocational interest theory and research.
In view of this, the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Policy and Research commissioned the
development of a new instrument with five primary goals in mind:
1) Create an instrument with strong psychometric properties that reliably and accurately
measure Holland’s (1985a) interest types while remaining simple and self-scorable by
clients
2) Create a fair and unbiased instrument with inoffensive and comprehensible language
3) Provide clients with up-to-date examples of work activities representing the entire
world of work and ensure that a broad range of occupations and training-level
requirements were included within the instrument
4) Develop a self-administered, self-interpretable instrument that can aid clients with
career exploration on their own

National Center for O*NET Development

40

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
5) Produce user-friendly support materials for counselors and program staff, as well as
in self-assessment settings
Interest Profiler Long Form, Paper-and-Pencil Version2
The creation of the Interest Profiler Long Form began with pooling items from existing
Department of Labor interest measures to ensure representation of a wide variety of work and
activities. A total of 453 items were compiled from the USES Interest Inventory, the Interest
Checklist, and the Job Search Inventory (New York State Job Service, 1985). A set of four
judges trained in test development and Holland’s (1985a) vocational personality theory critically
reviewed each item, filtering out items that were biased or offensive to individuals or subgroups,
non-work activity items (e.g., life experiences), outdated work activities, activities with a narrow
focus, obsolete language, and duplicate items. 281 items remained after this review process.
Judges also drafted 288 new items to cover new examples of work activities to bring the item
pool to 569 items.
An initial pilot study was conducted with the 569 items to examine the items’ endorsement rates.
A heterogenous sample of 128 individuals (43 Male, 74 Female) of diverse ages (14-73 years)
and employment statuses responded to each item. Items with extreme means or large gender
differences were removed or flagged for revision. The primary reason for deleting items,
however, was the comparison of endorsement rates for items with similar content. For example,
among two items with similar content, the item with the more extreme endorsement rate would
be eliminated. After this initial pilot study, a pool of 532 items was retained.
To ensure broad occupational representation across the world of work, items were sorted into a
taxonomy of work content areas categorized by Holland’s (1985a) RIASEC vocational
personality types. Work content areas were derived from the Guide for Occupational Exploration
(GOE; U.S. Department of Labor, 1979b). Four judges modified and assigned 68 work content
areas from the GOE to the six RIASEC constructs. The taxonomy can be viewed in Table 1. In
addition to being sorted into the taxonomy, items were rated according to training-level
requirements in order to increase the diversity in complexity of occupations represented within
each RIASEC category. Judges rated items on a 5-point training level scale ranging from ‘up to
and including 6 months of training’ (1) to ‘over 4 years of training’ (5).
The taxonomy was critical in identifying content areas that lacked coverage in the current pool of
items. Judges reviewed the 532 items and independently assigned them to one of the work
content areas within a RIASEC category. Assignment disagreements were flagged, discussed,
and resolved. With the final goal of trimming the pool to 180 items, a minimum of 100 items per
RIASEC construct served as the target during item development. Areas within the taxonomy that
did not meet the taxonomy goals (i.e., did not have enough items) were identified. New items
were needed to fill these identified areas. A team of four item writers designed new items
(written as work activities) to fill the gaps in the taxonomy. They endeavored to write these new
items to be diverse in training-level requirement, inoffensive to individuals and subgroups,
2 The Paper-and-Pencil version of the O*NET Interest Profiler Long Form was retired in September 2018. It’s
replacement is the paper-and-pencil version of the Interest Profiler Short Form.

National Center for O*NET Development

41

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
comprehensible to individuals from different backgrounds, and to elicit endorsement rates that
fell between 10 and 90 percent.
A total of 272 new items were developed, resulting in a pool of 804 items. All items were
formatted as work activity statements to be as relevant to the world of work as possible. A
second pilot study on 147 individuals from employment service offices and other state agencies
was conducted. Endorsement rates were once again reviewed, and items with extreme means,
large gender differences, and overlapping content were considered for removal. After this second
pilot study, a pool of 776 items remained.
The pool of 776 items was subjected to a comprehensive screening process designed to remove
items that failed to meet the rigorous standards for inclusion in the O*NET Interest Profiler.
With the exception of the development of the Jackson Vocational Interest Survey (Jackson,
1977), these standards are likely the most comprehensive screens in the field of vocational
interest measurement. Each item was required to pass the seven screens presented below to be
included in the next phase of the instrument development.
1. Retranslation
Five expert judges received a pool of items with no indication of the RIASEC category or work
content area each item was intended to represent and were tasked with independently sorting
each item to a RIASEC category. Judges discussed assignment differences when agreement on
an item was less than 80%, when the assignment made by judges conflicted with the RIASEC
category the items were intended to represent, or when items were flagged as problematic.
It was determined that three work content areas (Barber & Beauty Services: 9.02, Computer
Technology: 2.05, Safety & Law Enforcement: 4.01) represent work activities present in
multiple RIASEC categories. For example, Barber & Beauty Services - 9.02 was placed in both
the Social and Enterprising constructs. The taxonomy was adjusted accordingly, leading to a
total of 71 work content areas (see Table 1, work content areas identified in red).
2. Sensitivity
Six judges representing diverse race/ethnic and gender groups reviewed each item for possible
biases or language that might be offensive to specific individuals or groups. The judges
concluded with a list of suggested item revisions and deletions that were incorporated within the
item pool.
3. Comprehensibility
An eighth-grade reading level was selected as the goal for the items. Using The Living Word
Vocabulary (Dale & O’Rourke, 1981) as a resource, two sets of inspectors independently
identified the grade level assigned to all words present in the pool of items. Agreement between
the inspectors was high, and items with words exceeding an eighth-grade level were either
replaced with simpler synonyms, rewritten, or left intact when no suitable replacement was
available.

National Center for O*NET Development

42

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
4. Familiarity
The work activities described by the items within the final version of the instrument needed to
be recognizable (i.e., familiar) to a broad range of communities. Eight focus groups from four
regions of the country were tasked with rating the familiarity of each item on a 5-point scale,
ranging from ‘not familiar’ (1) to ‘very familiar’ (5). A total of 254 individuals from different
ethnicities and education levels participated (127 Male, 127 Females; ages ranged from 18-70).
The mean and mode familiarity ratings of both the total sample and sub-samples were used to
remove items (in general, the cutoff was a mean of 2.0 or below). Focus group discussions also
yielded a wealth of qualitative data related to: (a) the currency of the items, (b) the variety of the
items, (c) missing work activities, and (d) recommendations related to specific items.
5. Training Requirement
This screening was conducted to ensure that items represented the broad range of training
requirements specified by the taxonomy. Two panels of nine occupational analysts with
expert knowledge of the Specific Vocational Preparation scale (SVP; U.S. Department of
Labor, 1991) rated the amount of vocational training required to perform the work activity
described by items in a subset of the item pool. Analysts in both panels rated 229 common items.
Mean ratings on the common items were compared. The ratings between the two panels were
very similar. The average mean difference between panel ratings was .06, and the correlation
between the ratings was .98. The mean, mode, and standard deviation of each item's training
level assignment were used to remove items from areas of the taxonomy that were
over-represented (i.e., work content areas). The goal was to maximize the variance of training
levels represented by items within each RIASEC category.
6. Duplication
A team of four judges reviewed the pool to eliminate items with identical or nearly identical
content. For example, "type a memo" and "type a letter" would be considered nearly identical,
and only one would be retained.
7. Copyright
Items were compared with those in the (1) Interest-Finder (Defense Manpower Data Center,
1995), (2) Self-Directed Search (Holland, 1985b), (3) Strong Interest Inventory (Hansen and
Campbell, 1985), and (4) UNIACT-R (American College Testing Program, 1995). Two
inspectors independently identified duplicate and near duplicate items. Agreement between the
inspectors was extremely high, with the few discrepancies being resolved by the team of
inspectors. All items that represented potential copyright infringements were removed.
Once the item screening process was complete, a pool of 500 items remained. These items were
subjected to a large-scale item tryout study to gather information on the psychometric properties
of the items in the tryout pool. Items with the highest reliability, lowest bias, and strongest
construct validity would then be flagged for inclusion in the O*NET Interest Profiler.
A total of 1,123 participants across six states provided useable responses to the validation study.
The sample was diverse in sex (529 Male, 594 Female), race/ethnicity (38% African American,
33% White, 25% Hispanic, 4% Other), age (individuals in their twenties totaled 30%; thirties,

National Center for O*NET Development

43

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
27%; forties and fifties, 25%; teens, 15%; and sixties or greater, 3%) and education (individuals
with high school degree, 47%; college through bachelors’ degree, 27%; less than high school
degree, 21%; and at least some graduate school, 5%). Unemployed workers represented 39% of
the sample.
Participants were administered one of two mirrored forms of the O*NET Interest Profiler and the
Interest-Finder (Wall, Wise & Baker, 1996). The Interest Finder is a self-scoring measure
designed to help individuals discover their work-related RIASEC interests. RIASEC scale
correlations between the Interest Profiler and Interest Finder were calculated to establish
construct validity via comparisons with an already reputable interest measure. Counterbalancing
of interest measures was used to prevent order effects. Data were collected between October and
December of 1996.
The validation study showed that the O*NET Interest Profiler had good internal consistency and
validity as a measure of RIASEC interests. All six scales demonstrated a high degree of
internal reliability, with coefficient alphas ranging from .95 to .97. Although the rank order of
the scale means was different between the Interest Profiler and Interest Finder, examination of
the instruments’ scale intercorrelations reveals a very high correlation between corresponding
scales (.71 to .86), and low correlation between non-matching scales. These correlational
relations provide evidence for both convergent and discriminant validity. Both measures also
showed similar gender, racial and ethnic balance in endorsement rates within each RIASEC
scale.
The data from the validation study was also used for item evaluation. Items with endorsement
rates lower than 10% and higher than 75% were eliminated. Gender, Minority vs. non-minority,
and ethnic comparisons of endorsement rates were also conducted. Items with endorsement rate
differences greater than .30 were eliminated. Internal consistencies of items were also calculated
for each RIASEC scale. Items with corrected item-to-total correlations below .30 were
eliminated. An item pool of 461 items was retained after these screens.
Items were then ranked according to their conformity to Holland’s (1985a) hexagonal model
using a correlational algorithm. Holland’s model states that a Realistic item, for example, should
correlate most highly with its target scale, next strongest with its adjacent scales (Investigative &
Conventional), less strongly with its alternative scales (Artistic & Enterprising), and least
strongly with its opposite scale (Social). The algorithm applied was:
1-target scale correlation – { ( .5* opposite scale correlation) – [1.5*
(alternate scale correlation 1 + alternate scale correlation 2)] – [.1 *
(adjacent scale correlation 1 + adjacent scale correlation 2)]}.
Items were eliminated if their corrected target scale correlation was less than their correlation
with another scale. Next, four judges with psychometric backgrounds and training in Holland’s
vocational theory and the O*NET Interest Profiler Taxonomy independently made qualitative
selection of items based on the item-to-scale correlations, gender and race/ethnic endorsement

National Center for O*NET Development

44

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
rate differences, training level requirement ratings, and work content area assignments. Judges
discussed their respective selections and agreed on an initial selection of 30-items per scale.
Starting with the initial 30-item scales, different item combinations within scales were examined
to maximize the empirical relationships of items within scales, as well as to minimize the
relationship of each item with non-target scale totals. Accordingly, an item was replaced if its
removal increased the scale internal reliability (coefficient alpha) or if the item's target scale
correlation was less than its correlation with another scale. Six scales composed of 30 items each
were finalized. Twenty-nine of the total 180 items were original items drawn from the three
existing DOL interest instruments.
The final step in the design of the O*NET Interest Profiler was to decide on a format and layout
that could be reliably hand-scored by clients to produce accurate and reliable interest profiles.
The format should also allow the instrument to be easily reviewed and updated in future digital
versions.
The 3-point Like, Unsure, Dislike response format was selected due to its simplicity in
hand-scoring and because it maintained continuity with formats of existing DOL instruments.
Developers felt the ‘Unsure’ response was essential to allow clients to avoid making a ‘forced
choice’ between two responses that did not adequately capture their interests. Counselors also
expressed a preference for the ability to identify work activities that their clients were not aware
of or had questions about so they could work with their clients to clarify and update them. Items
that repeatedly result in ‘Unsure’ responses could also be reviewed for revision in future versions
of the Interest Profiler.
A wide variety of item layouts were explored. The final layout was a presentation of 15 columns
of 12 interest items each. Within each column, sets of items representing one of the interest
categories are presented in the order: Realistic, Investigative, Artistic, Social, Enterprising,
Conventional. Horizontal color bands distinguish the items representing each RIASEC category.
The color bands serve to aid in the scoring of the instrument as well as allow clients to go back
and review the work activity statements within a particular RIASEC construct once they have
completed the instrument.
Additionally, a small focus group session (N = 80) was conducted to evaluate users’ ability to
understand the O*NET Interest Profiler, its scoring, and its instructions. Participants generally
expressed high approval to take the instrument again and recommend it to their friends. The
focus group discussions revealed that while some participants relied on visual instructions to
understand the Interest Profiler, others found them distracting. Thus, the final version of the
Interest Profiler used a “middle of the road” emphasis on visual instructions.

National Center for O*NET Development

45

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Interest Profiler Long Form, Computerized Version 3
To extend the reach of the Interest Profiler to wider audiences and expand the settings in which
the Interest Profiler can be administered, a computerized form of the Interest Profiler, called the
IP Long Form, Computerized version was commissioned by the U.S. Department of Labor in
1999 (Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert, Lewis & Rivkin, 1999). The computerized version of the
Interest Profiler offered several advantages over the paper-and-pencil version. First, the
automated scoring provides participants with accurate and virtually instant feedback about their
vocational interests. Second, the career counseling tool can be conveniently administered in
computer labs prevalent in schools and career centers. Third, the computerized version of the
Interest Profiler is more environmentally-friendly.
The content (e.g. items, response scale) of the Computerized Interest Profiler (CIP) was identical
to that of the paper-and-pencil version of the Interest Profiler Long Form, except that it was
presented on a computer screen. Respondents could answer each item by using either a mouse or
computer keyboard. Unlike the paper-and-pencil version, the CIP did not allow respondents to
skip items. Scoring of the CIP was identical to that of the paper-and-pencil version, as described
above, except that the subscales were automatically calculated by the program.
During its development, the CIP was evaluated for its test-retest reliability and comparability
with the paper-and-pencil version of the Interest Profiler. A test-retest sample of 125 participants
from North Carolina Employment and Security Offices were administered the CIP twice within
28-35 days. Cross-classification analysis of the test-retest sample indicated that the CIP yielded
stable high-point RIASEC codes across administrations (Cohen’s Coefficient Kappa = .67, hit
rate = 75.2%).
A second study was conducted to examine if individuals would achieve the same results on both
the CIP and the paper-and-pencil version of the Interest Profiler Long Form. 463 participants
from employment and security offices in four states (New York, California, Michigan and North
Carolina) completed both the CIP and pen and paper version in counterbalanced order. Results
showed very similar internal consistency in scales for both versions (α = .93 to .96). A
multidimensional scaling analysis also showed that both versions possessed similar structural
validity. Correlations among matching RIASEC scales across test versions were very high (>
.93), and further analysis showed that the two versions were highly comparable, with both
measures yielding consistent primary code classifications (Cohen’s Coefficient Kappa = .75, hit
rate = 79.8%). Participants generally completed the CIP faster than the paper-and-pencil version,
and 78.4% provided feedback that they preferred the computer format over the pen and paper
format, while 17.5% would take either version.

3 The Computerized version of the O*NET Interest Profiler Long Form was retired in September 2018. It’s
replacement is the web-based version of the Interest Profiler Short Form or the Mini Interest Profiler.

National Center for O*NET Development

46

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Development of the Interest Profiler Short Form
In 2010, a 60-item version of the Interest Profiler, called the Interest Profiler Short Form was
developed (Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2010). The developers of the Short Form had four
primary goals in mind:
1) Develop a shortened version of the Interest Profiler that can be used in consulting
settings, where it is more practical to have measures that can be completed within 20
minutes.
2) The Short Form should adhere to the structure of the RIASEC model (Holland, 1997)
with broad item coverage, while maintaining similar levels of reliability as the Long
Form.
3) Select items to increase the endorsement rate for the Enterprising scale since previous
research (Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis & Rivkin, 1999) indicated that the
Enterprising scale had lower endorsement rates relative to the other five scales
4) Reduce the length to make suitable for web-based delivery to further leverage
technology (e.g., more complicated response scale)
An iterative procedure was used to select items from the 180-item Interest Profiler to maintain
construct validity of Holland’s (1997) RIASEC typology. Using a large and diverse dataset (N =
1,061) that had been used in the validation of the Interest Profiler Long Form (Rounds, Walker,
Day, Hubert, Lewis & Rivkin, 1999), researchers performed multidimensional scaling (Kruskal
& Wish, 1978) on the inter-item correlation matrix. This process visualizes the relation of each
item relative to each other item on a two-dimensional space. Items similar in content coverage
would be clustered close to each other. In the context of the interest items, there tends to be six
clusters representing each RIASEC type. Item selection for the Interest Profiler Short Form was
based on the items’ locations within each RIASEC cluster and between each RIASEC cluster
according to the hexagonal model. The selection process worked both forward (adding items)
and backward (deleting items). The developers recreated the spatial map when 20, 15, and 10
items were selected per RIASEC scale. For Enterprising items, the mean endorsement rate was
an additional criterion used for item selection. These analyses and judgments yielded 10-item
RIASEC scales.
The preliminary 10-item RIASEC scales underwent a final examination by a panel of three
judges who had extensive backgrounds in vocational psychology and test construction. With
information on all 180-items of the Long Form, they re-examined item means, standard
deviations, item cross-correlations with RIASEC scale scores from both the Interest Profiler and
Interest Finder (Wall & Baker, 1997), and two-dimensional spatial item maps for the 180 items
of the Interest Profiler Long Form. At the RIASEC scale level, they also examined the
reliabilities for the 10-item RIASEC scales and cross-correlations and cross-classification of the
Interest Profiler Short Form with Interest Finder RIASEC scales. This review resulted in four
items being replaced on four different RIASEC scales.

National Center for O*NET Development

47

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Interest Profiler Short Form, Web-based Version
A computerized version of the Interest Profiler Short Form was adapted for use with the launch
of the My Next Move website in February 2011. In addition, a Spanish-language version of the IP
Short Form was released when Mi Proximo Paso, a version of My Next Move tailored for a
Spanish-speaking audience, was launched in February 2013. My Next Move and Mi Proximo
Paso are subsidiary websites for O*NET that aid individuals in career exploration and planning.
Both English- and Spanish-language versions are available for developers via O*NET Web
Services. The English-version of the IP Short form was made available for developers in June
2012. The Spanish-version was made available in September 2013.
In the development of a web-based format, the developers of the Interest Profiler Short Form
made the decision to switch from a three-point response format to a five-point scale where
participants rated their interest in each item from 0 = “strongly dislike,” 1 = “dislike,” 2 =
“unsure,” 3 = “like,” and 4 = “strongly like”. Scores would then be computed by summing
responses for each of the six Holland types with a score range of 0 to 40. This decision was
based, in part, on the rationale given by Donnay, Morris, Schaubhut, and Thompson (2005) in
the revision of the Strong Interest Inventory from a response format of three options to five
options. With fewer items for the Short Form, increasing the response options to five points may
improve the internal consistency reliability and accuracy of measurement. In 2017, O*NET
introduced the use of emoji anchors into the Web-based version of the Short Form (see
‘Development of Mini Interest Profiler’, below).
There was also one minor item change between the Web-based and original versions. In the
original version, item 36 (“Load computer software into a large computer network”) was
identified as outdated by many O*NET customers. Consultation with IT experts led the item to
be reworded to its current form, “ Install software across computers on a large network.”
Interest Profiler Short Form, Paper-and-Pencil Version
In 2018, a paper-and-pencil (P & P) version of the Interest Profiler Short Form was developed.
The main difference between the P & P version and the Web-based version is the method of
scoring and response format. For the P & P version, the participant is asked to check activities
you would like to do. These checked activities for each RIASEC type are summed yielding raw
scores. The self-scoring P & P version of the Interest Profiler is necessary for multiple situations
where computers are unavailable. Sites that need a paper-and-pencil form are, for example,
schools and correctional facilities.
The Interest Profiler P & P and current Web-based versions use the same 60 items. Both IP
versions, however, have one item that is different from the original developmental version of the
Web-based IP (Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2010). The one revised item is from the Social
scale (New item: “Teach sign language to people who are deaf or hard of hearing”. Old item:
“Teach sign language to people with hearing disabilities”; c.f., Dunn & Andrews, 2015). This
change was made based on the rationale of including only culturally appropriate and inoffensive
phrasing towards people with disabilities (Dunn & Andrews, 2015). The new version of the

National Center for O*NET Development

48

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Interest Profiler was validated using two samples of individuals from correctional facilities (N =
421) and schools (N = 140) (Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Lewis & Gregory, 2018). Results showed that
both versions of the Interest Profiler maintained high levels of reliability and internal consistency
reliability, and respondents had little to no difficulty in self-scoring and reporting their high-point
codes.
Development of the Mini Interest Profiler
In 2016, advancements in mobile technology spurred the Department of Labor to look into the
possibility of an even shorter version of the Interest Profiler that could be quickly and easily be
completed on cellphones and other mobile devices. There are several benefits of creating an even
shorter, 30-item ‘Mini’ Interest Profiler. A 30-item interest measure is more flexible regarding
when and where it can be administered. For example, short measures are more suitable to include
as part of a longer survey or a large-scale panel study where participants are assessed on multiple
constructs. It is also more practical to administer short measures through portable mobile
devices. Attention span while on mobile phones is markedly lower than on computers, averaging
about 72 seconds (Budiu, 2015). Attention on mobile is often fragmented in short sessions, and
individuals often explore content on their mobile phones while commuting. Furthermore, the
way items are presented on small phone screens disallow comparable density of items to
paper-and-pencil tests (web-based surveys typically require more “pages” than paper tests;
Stanton, Sinar, Balzer, & Smith, 2002). The increased number of pages to scroll through can be
more tedious and give the illusion that a test is longer than its paper-and-pencil version.
For the development of the Mini Interest Profiler, the same dataset (N = 1,061; Rounds et al.,
1999) used to develop the Short Form was used to develop the Mini-IP (Rounds, Wee, Cao,
Song & Lewis, 2016). Data from items in the 60-item Interest Profiler Short Form were
subjected to three different filtering methods: Item Response Theory, Multidimensional Scaling,
and Content and Gender Balance.
1. Item Response Theory
Item Response Theory (IRT) analysis involves the use of mathematical models to represent the
relationship between an individual’s observed responses to scale items and the true underlying
trait score (Hambleton & Swaminathan, 1985, 1991). In IRT, the underlying trait (e.g. realistic
interests) is commonly designated with the Greek letter theta (θ). An individual’s probability of
endorsing an item can then be modeled in terms of his or her underlying trait level and several
item characteristics such as discrimination (a) and difficulty (b). By applying an IRT
measurement model to RIASEC scale data comprising responses from individuals with varying
trait levels, one can estimate the item parameters (a & b) that provide information on how well
the item assesses the entire continuum of an interest dimension.
Results for the IRT item analysis are presented in Tables 2a to 2f. The item discrimination
parameter (a) represents an item’s ability to differentiate between individuals with similar but
not identical trait levels. By selecting high-discrimination items, it is possible to create scales
with fewer items and relatively high measurement precision. The item difficulty parameter (b)
represents the trait level of an individual who will endorse the item with a 50% chance. While

National Center for O*NET Development

49

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
the concept of item difficulty in interest measures is somewhat disjoint, b-values across items
will inform us on the extent to which the scale suitably assesses individuals with different levels
of interests. Having a balanced distribution of items across difficulty levels can prevent
inaccurate measurement of individuals with relatively extreme interests. In sum, by applying
item response principles to each item within the individual RIASEC scales, O*NET researchers
were able to select the most discriminating items while maintaining a balanced distribution of
item difficulty and avoiding items with overlapping content.
BILOG Software (Thissen, 1991) was used to estimate the 2-Parameter Logistic Model item
parameters (a & b) for each item within the RIASEC dimensions. Model fit and local
independence was assessed using Stark’s (2001) MODFIT program. Items with extremely low
discrimination (a < .60) were disregarded for selection.
2. Multidimensional Scaling
Multidimensional scaling methods used in the shortening of the Interest Profiler Long Form to
Short Form were also used to select items from the Short Form to be included in the Mini Form.
Items were selected based on their locations in the two-dimensional space according to Holland’s
RIASEC model. In other words, the item-level multidimensional scaling output was used to
decide on different combinations of 5 items for each RIASEC scale such that the scale-level
multidimensional scaling output satisfactorily reproduced Holland’s RIASEC hexagon. The
selection process was both backwards (deleting items) and forward (adding items). For example,
while the four Social ‘teaching’ items (S1, S6, S7, & S10) had very similar discrimination
parameters, researchers selected the item that made the final Social scale roughly equidistant to
the Enterprising scale and Artistic scale.
3. Content Coverage and Gender Balance
The remaining criteria used for item selection were to ensure balanced content coverage of the
selected items and minimize gender differences within RIASEC scales. Three judges with
experience in vocational psychology and test construction checked each selected item for
redundancy of verbs and activities. For example, there were three items in the Investigative scale
describing activities conducted within science labs (I8 [Work in a biology lab, a = 1.77], I10 [Do
laboratory tests to identify diseases, a = 1.6] and I5 [Examine blood samples using a microscope,
a = 1.31]. Although all 3 items have high discrimination parameters, Researchers selected only
one item to represent the laboratory context based on RIASEC structure and gender balance.
Both the IRT analysis and judges’ discussions indicated that only one of the three lab items
should be included in the Mini-IP. Analysis of gender balance involved calculating effect sizes
for the mean differences between males and females for each item and then selecting items such
that the net gender difference for each RIASEC scale was acceptably small (Su, Rounds, &
Armstrong, 2009).
The result of these item selection criteria shortened the Interest Profiler Short Form to 30-items
(5 items per RIASEC scale). This 30-item Mini Interest Profiler was validated using new data
from a sample of 600 participants collected online through Amazon’s Mechanical Turk. From
the results of this validation study, no additional changes to the instrument were deemed
necessary. The Mini Interest Profiler maintained the same format and scoring method as the

National Center for O*NET Development

50

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Online Interest Profiler Short Form. Participants indicate their interest in each activity from 0 =
“strongly dislike,” 1 = “dislike,” 2 = “unsure,” 3 = “like,” and 4 = “strongly like” and scores are
computed by summing responses for each of the six Holland types with a score range of 0 to 20.
Substitution of Response Options with Emojis
Emojis are ideograms commonly used in text messaging and email platforms (e.g., Facebook,
Android text messaging, Gmail). These simple images most commonly depict faces expressing
different affective responses (e.g., smiley face). In 2016, O*NET explored the possibility of
using emojis as scale anchors for their online Interest Profiler Short Form and Mini-IP. In
addition to being compact and ideal for use on small screens, similarly constructed “face rating
scales” are often preferred by respondents (Champion et al., 2010) and may even be more
accurate at capturing affective responses in some populations (Kunin, 1955; Izard, 2007;
Lindquist, Barrett, Bliss-Moreau, & Russell, 2006).
Rounds, Phan, Amrhein, & Lewis (2016) compared the equivalence of using the Interest Profiler
Short Form with emoji scales versus the traditional five-point response scale. In two studies, they
found that emoji response scales did not compromise the psychometric properties of the scale,
nor interfere with the structural validity of Holland’s (1992) model of interests.
In 2017, O*NET officially introduced the use of emoji anchors in their online version of the
Interest Profiler Short Form at www.mynextmove.org/explore/ip. The following emojis were
used to represent different intensity of likes and dislike:

The same emoji anchors are available to developers who wish to use the Mini Interest Profiler.
Summary and Continued Development of the Interest Profiler
Since its inception in 1999, the O*NET Interest Profiler has undergone many iterative changes to
its length, content, and format in order to maintain the highest standards of accuracy, validity,
reliability, and relevancy. With the advent of new technologies, new jobs are constantly being
created, while old job descriptions and workplace practices are rapidly evolving (Casey, 1999).
O*NET recognizes the continued need to keep up with these changes and update items as
activity statements become outdated or when what is considered proper, inoffensive language
changes with the times. The Interest Profiler now offers 60-item and 30-item versions that can be

National Center for O*NET Development

51

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
administered through paper-and-pencil formats and using computers or mobile devices. O*NET
will continue to monitor new technological and workplace advancements and make necessary
changes to continue to provide high quality career counseling and assessment to its users.

National Center for O*NET Development

52

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
References
American College Testing Program. (1995). Technical manual: Revised Unisex Edition of the
ACT Interest Inventory (UNIACT). Iowa City, IA.
Budiu, R. (2015, April 19). Mobile user experience: Limitations and strengths. Retrieved from
https://www.nngroup.com/articles/mobile-ux/
Casey, C. (1999). The changing context of work. In D. Boud & J. Garrick (Eds.), Understanding
learning at work (pp. 15–28). London: Routledge.
Champion, H. R., Holcomb, J. B., Lawnick, M. M., Kelliher, T., Spott, M. A., Galarneau, M. R.,
& Eastridge, B. J. (2010). Improved characterization of combat injury. Journal of
Trauma and Acute Care Surgery, 68(5), 1139-1150.
Dale, E., & O'Rourke, J. (1981). The living word vocabulary. Chicago: World Book-Childcraft
Inc.
Donnay, D. A. C., Morris, M. L., Schaubhut, N. A., & Thompson, R. C. (2005). Strong Interest
Inventory manual: Research, development, and strategies for interpretation. Mountain
View, CA: CPP.
Dunn, D. S., & Andrews, E. E. (2015). Person-first and identity-first language: Developing
psychologists’ cultural competence using disability language. American Psychologist, 70,
255–264. http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/a0038636
Hambleton, R. K., Swaminathan, H., & Rogers, J. (1991). Fundamentals of Item response
theory: Principles and applications. Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publishing.
Hansen, J. C. & Campbell D. P. (1985). Manual for the Strong Interest Inventory, (4th ed.) Palo
Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press.
Holland, J. L. (1985a). Making vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and
work environments (2nd ed.). Englewood Cliff, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Holland, J. L. (1985b). The Self-Directed Search professional manual. Odessa, FL:
Psychological Assessment Resources.
Holland, J.L. (1997). Making vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and work
environments (3rd edition). Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources, Inc.
Izard, C. E. (2007). Basic emotions, natural kinds, emotion schemas, and a new paradigm.
Perspectives on Psychological Science, 2(3), 260-290.
Kruskal, J. P., & Wish, M. (1978). Multidimensional scaling. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.

National Center for O*NET Development

53

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT

Kunin, T. (1955). The construction of a new type of attitude measure. Personnel Psychology,
8(1), 65-77.
Lewis, P. & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of the O*NET interest profiler. National Center for
O*Net Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Lindquist, K. A., Barrett, L. F., Bliss-Moreau, E., Russell, J. A. (2006). Language and the
perception of emotion. Emotion, 6(1), 125-138.
New York State Job Service. (1985). The Job Search Inventory.
Rounds, J., Hoff, K., Chu, C., Lewis, P. & Gregory, C. (2018). O*NET interest profiler short
form paper-and-pencil version: Evaluation of self-scoring and psychometric
characteristics. National Center for O*Net Development, Raleigh,NC.
<http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S. E., Smith, T. J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P. & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
computerized interest profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. National Center
for O*Net Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Rounds, J., Phan, W. M. J., Amrhein, R. & Lewis, P. (2016). Examining the efficacy of emoji
anchors for the O*NET interest profiler short form. National Center for O*Net
Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P. & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET interest profiler short form
psychometric characteristics: Summary. National Center for O*Net Development,
Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Rounds, J., Walker, C. R., Day, S. X, Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. National Center for O*Net
Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Rounds, J., Wee, J. M., Cao, M., Song, C. & Lewis, P. (2016). Development of an O*NET mini
interest profiler (mini-ip) for mobile devices: Psychometric characteristics. National
Center for O*Net Development, Raleigh,NC.
<http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Stanton, J. M., Sinar, E. F., Balzer, W. K., & Smith, P. C. (2002). Issues and strategies for
reducing the length of self-report scales. Personnel Psychology, 55, 167-194.
Stark, S. (2001). MODFIT: A computer program for model-data fit. Unpublished manuscript.
University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign.

National Center for O*NET Development

54

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Su, R., Rounds, J., & Armstrong, P. I. (2009). Men and things, women and people: A
meta-analysis of sex differences in interests. Psychological Bulletin, 135, 859-884.
Thissen, D. (1991). Multilog user’s guide: Multiple categorical item and test scoring using item
response theory (Version 6.0) [Computer software]. Chicago, IL: Scientific Software.
U.S. Department of Labor. (1979a). Interest Check List. Washington, DC: US Government
Printing Office.
U.S. Department of Labor. (1979b). Guide for Occupational Exploration. Washington, DC: US
Government Printing Office.
U.S. Department of Labor. (1981). USES Interest Inventory. Washington, DC: US Government
Printing Office.
U.S. Department of Labor. (1991). The revised handbook for analyzing jobs. Washington, DC:
US Government Printing Office.
Wall, J., Wise, L., & Baker, H. (1996). Development of the interest-finder: A new
RIASEC-based interest inventory. Measurement and Evaluation in Counseling and
Development, 29(3), 134–152.
Wall, J. E., & Baker, H. E. (1997). The Interest-Finder: Evidence of validity. Journal of Career
Assessment, 5, 255-273.

National Center for O*NET Development

55

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Table 1. Interest Profiler Taxonomy
Realistic

Investigative

Artistic

Social

Enterprising

Conventional

03.01 Plants and
Animals

02.01 Physical
Sciences

01.01 Literary Arts

04.01 Safety & Law
Enforcement

08.01 Sales
Technology

08.09 Material
Control

03.03 Animal
Training Services

02.02 Life Sciences

01.02 Visual Arts

09.01 Hospitality
Services

08.02 General Sales

07.01 Administrative
Detail

04.02 Security
Services

02.03 Medical
Sciences

01.03 Performing
Arts: Drama

09.02 Barber &
Beauty Services

08.03 Vending

07.02 Mathematical
Detail

05.04 Airplane &
Ship Operation

02.04 Laboratory
Technology

01.04 Performing
Arts: Music

10.01 Social Services

09.05
Attendant/Customer
Services

07.03 Financial Detail

05.05 Craft
Technology

02.05 Computer
Technology

01.05 Performing
Arts: Dance

10.02 Nursing,
Therapy, &
Specialized Teaching
Services

11.04 Law

07.04 Oral
Communications

05.06 Systems
Operations

05.01 Engineering

01.06 Craft Arts

10.03 Child & Adult
Care

11.05 Business
Administration

07.05 Records
Processing

05.07 Quality
Control: Mechanical

05.02 Mechanical
Systems Management

01.08 Modeling

11.02 Educational &
Library Services

11.06 Finance Buy &
Sell

07.06 Clerical
Machine Operation

National Center for O*NET Development

56

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT

05.08 Land & Water
Vehicle Operation

05.03 Engineering
Technology

11.07 Service
Administration

07.07 Clerical
Handling

05.10 Crafts

11.01 Mathematics &
Statistics

11.09 Promotion

2.05 Computer
Technology

05.11 Equipment
Operation

11.03 Social Research

11.11 Business
Management

05.12 Basic
Mechanics

11.06 Finance:
Design &
Interpretation

11.12 Contracts &
Claims

06.01 Production
Technology

11.08
Communications

9.02 Barber & Beauty
Services

06.02 Production
Work

11.10 Regulations
Enforcement

06.03 Quality
Control: Industrial

12.00 General
Research

09.03 Passenger
Services

4.01 Safety & Law

12.02 Physical Feats

12.01 Sports

Note. Items in Red were moved after retranslation screening.

National Center for O*NET Development

57

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Table 2a. Item Parameters for Short-IP Realistic Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Build kitchen cabinets
1
Lay brick or tile
2
Repair household appliances
3
Raise fish in a fish hatchery
4
Assemble electronic parts
5
Drive a truck to deliver packages to offices and homes
6
Test the quality of parts before shipment
7
Repair and install locks
8
Set up and operate machines to make products
9
Put out forest fires
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

2PL
a
1.29
1.35
1.63
0.70
1.22
1.08
1.03
1.62
1.32
0.75

b
0.19
0.57
0.26
1.40
0.43
0.30
0.19
0.45
0.43
0.54

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.50
0.50
0.42
0.50
0.51
0.50
0.40
0.49
0.54
0.50
0.54
0.50
0.49
0.50
0.44
0.50
0.46
0.50
0.47
0.50

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.23
0.42
0.23
0.42
0.25
0.43
0.16
0.37
0.25
0.43
0.29
0.45
0.26
0.44
0.16
0.37
0.19
0.39
0.19
0.39

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.55
0.50
0.53
0.50
0.44
0.50
0.52
0.50
0.37
0.48
0.62
0.49
0.48
0.50
0.42
0.49
0.36
0.48
0.40
0.49

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.45
0.50
0.45
0.50
0.31
0.46
0.34
0.47
0.40
0.49
0.44
0.50
0.34
0.47
0.39
0.49
0.30
0.46
0.43
0.50

Table 2b. Item Parameters for Short-IP Investigative Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Develop a new medicine
1
Study ways to reduce water pollution
2
Conduct chemical experiments
3
Study the movement of planets
4
Examine blood samples using a microscope
5
Investigate the cause of a fire
6
Develop a way to better predict the weather
7
Work in a biology lab
8
Invent a replacement for sugar
9
Do laboratory tests to identify diseases
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

2PL
a
1.27
1.04
1.25
1.10
1.31
0.71
0.88
1.77
0.88
1.60

b
-0.16
0.01
0.34
0.20
0.25
-0.07
0.17
0.22
0.50
0.05

58

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Table 2c. Item Parameters for Short-IP Artistic Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Write books or plays
1
Play a musical instrument
2
Compose or arrange music
3
Draw pictures
4
Create special effects for movies
5
Paint sets for plays
6
Write scripts for movies or television shows
7
Perform jazz or tap dance
8
Sing in a band
9
Edit movies
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

2PL
a
1.18
0.91
1.37
0.79
1.2
0.8
1.56
0.84
1.13
1.28

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.44
0.5
0.62
0.49
0.41
0.49
0.53
0.5
0.68
0.47
0.35
0.48
0.45
0.5
0.25
0.44
0.42
0.49
0.46
0.5

b
0.15
-0.26
0.3
-0.08
-0.27
0.35
0.05
0.72
0.38
-0.11

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.56
0.5
0.61
0.49
0.35
0.48
0.53
0.5
0.49
0.5
0.42
0.49
0.47
0.5
0.33
0.47
0.4
0.49
0.41
0.49

Table 2d. Item Parameters for Short-IP Social Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Teach an individual an exercise routine
1
Help people with personal or emotional problems
2
Give career guidance to people
3
Perform rehabilitation therapy
4
Do volunteer work at a non-profit organization
5
Teach children how to play sports
6
Teach sign language to people with hearing disabilities
7
Help conduct a group therapy session
8
Take care of children at a day-care center
9
Teach a high-school class
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

2PL
a
0.96
1.38
1.14
1.37
0.75
0.99
0.94
1.06
0.89
0.85

b
0.12
-0.4
-0.35
0.05
-0.21
-0.44
0.08
-0.1
-0.01
0.03

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.39
0.49
0.58
0.49
0.49
0.5
0.37
0.48
0.48
0.5
0.69
0.47
0.31
0.46
0.37
0.48
0.27
0.44
0.41
0.49

59

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.53
0.5
0.75
0.44
0.62
0.49
0.56
0.5
0.67
0.47
0.61
0.49
0.58
0.49
0.61
0.49
0.57
0.5
0.4
0.49

CHAPTER 4: ITEM DEVELOPMENT
Table 2e. Item Parameters for Short-IP Enterprising Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Buy and sell stocks and bonds
1
Manage a retail store
2
Operate a beauty salon or barber shop
3
Manage a department within a large company
4
Start your own business
5
Negotiate business contracts
6
Represent a client in a lawsuit
7
Market a new line of clothing
8
Sell merchandise at a department store
9
Manage a clothing store
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

2PL
a
0.58
2.2
0.99
1.18
0.87
0.95
0.59
0.98
1.26
2.29

b
-0.04
-0.07
0.45
-0.36
-1.4
0.16
0
-0.14
0.23
-0.07

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.45
0.5
0.46
0.5
0.18
0.39
0.53
0.5
0.84
0.36
0.5
0.5
0.42
0.49
0.4
0.49
0.27
0.44
0.37
0.48

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.38
0.49
0.54
0.5
0.4
0.49
0.53
0.5
0.74
0.44
0.39
0.49
0.36
0.48
0.48
0.5
0.38
0.49
0.46
0.5

Item Averages
Males (N = 437)
M
SD
0.43
0.5
0.31
0.46
0.44
0.5
0.55
0.5
0.42
0.49
0.35
0.48
0.4
0.49
0.33
0.47
0.36
0.48
0.27
0.44

Females (N = 624)
M
SD
0.47
0.5
0.49
0.5
0.45
0.5
0.7
0.46
0.47
0.5
0.48
0.5
0.48
0.5
0.51
0.5
0.48
0.5
0.5
0.5

Table 2f. Item Parameters for Short-IP Conventional Scale Using Developmental Sample (N = 1061)

Item #
Content
Develop a spreadsheet using computer software
1
Proofread records or forms
2
Load computer software into a large computer network
3
Operate a calculator
4
Keep shipping and receiving records
5
Calculate the wages of employees
6
Inventory supplies using a hand-held computer
7
Record rent payments
8
Keep inventory records
9
Stamp, sort, and distribute mail for an organization
10
Note. Items in bold were selected for the Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

2PL
a
1.03
1.18
0.92
1.1
1.61
1.7
1.19
1.61
2.09
1.09

b
-0.05
0.15
-0.17
-0.5
-0.07
0.05
-0.06
-0.07
-0.02
0.06

60

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
CHAPTER 5
Reliability Evidence for the Interest Profiler
Tianjun Sun
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Bo Zhang
Texas A&M University
This chapter summarizes the psychometric properties of the O*NET Interest Profiler with a
special focus on the precision and errors of measurement (i.e., reliabilities). Specifically,
reliabilities are examined for the three forms of the Interest Profiler, including the Long Form
(180 items), Short Form (60 items), and Mini-IP (30 items). The proceeding sections discuss the
reliability of the Interest Profiler in several parts, including:
•
•
•
•

General introduction to reliability assessment and interpretations
Summary of past studies that examined the reliability of the Interest Profiler
Psychometric notes on the Interest Profiler scale development
Empirical assessments of the Interest Profiler reliability and measurement precision

Reliability Considerations
When attempting to measure psychological variables, including vocational interests, it is critical
to construct and apply psychometrically sound scales. To demonstrate the quality of a test,
reliability is often assessed in several different ways.
Traditionally, reliability reflects the overall consistency of a measure; a measure is said to have a
high reliability if it produces consistent results under similar conditions. Predominantly,
reliability assessment procedures follow the Classical Test Theory (CTT; see Lord & Novick,
1968 for details). The most common type of reliability estimate reported in scholarly articles
from the social and behavioral sciences is internal consistency. Internal consistency describes the
extent to which items on a test or scale correlate with one another. It is important for items from
the same scale to show a high degree of internal consistency to ensure that they are measuring
the same construct. Internal consistency is most often measured using the coefficient alpha (i.e.,
Cronbach’s alpha, following Cronbach’s seminal paper in 1951; Dunn, Baguley, & Brunsden,
2014). However, recently psychometricians have advocated for reporting various other types of
reliability information as well.
Cronbach’s α (alpha)
In CTT, reliability is defined as the ratio of variance of the true score (i.e., something we cannot
directly measure) to variance of the observed score for the trait being measured. The portion of
variance in the observed score not explained by the true score is considered to be random
measurement error. This means that anything that would influence error will change the
National Center for O*NET Development

61

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
reliability of a test. Because errors and true scores are unknown, it is not possible to know the
exact value of a test’s reliability. Coefficient alpha serves as a “best guess” for the unknown
population parameter that is the true reliability of the scale. Nunnally and Bernstein (1994)
recommended a heuristic that having coefficient alphas above .70 can be generally considered
the rule-of-thumb cut-off for determining good internal consistency.
McDonald’s ω (omega)
As an alternative to alpha, omega has been proposed as a more sensible index of internal
consistency (McDonald, 1999). The model that defines alpha assumes constant item variances
for true scores, but allows true score means and error variances of items to vary (Raykov, 1997).
The restrictive nature of this reliability model may be problematic. Omega makes fewer and
more realistic assumptions—for example, the assumption of scale constancy or invariant
response formats does not need to be met. Therefore, omega has less risk of over- or
under-estimation of reliability.
Confidence Intervals for Internal Consistency
It is also recommended that bootstrapping be used to obtain confidence intervals for internal
consistency estimates (Raykov, 1998). Confidence intervals are believed to be a crucial
requirement for any good effect size measure, and they provide a solid foundation for
interpretations of internal consistency estimates (Kelley & Preacher, 2012).
IRT-based Test Information and Conditional Standard Error
Item response theory (IRT) underpins a family of measurement models that describe the
relationship between an individual’s response to an item and the person’s standing on a
continuous latent trait. IRT models have been found to resolve longstanding problems with CTT
in terms of test construction, evaluation, administration, and scoring (Embretson & Reise, 2000).
To use IRT models to assess scales, an important concept is the information function (Birnbaum,
1968). Both items and scales have information functions. Item information indicates the relative
ability of an item to distinguish among trait scores at various locations along the trait continuum.
Summing all item information across scales yields scale (or test) information. Test information
provides a visual guide of where along the trait continuum a test is most informative, and it is
also inversely related to the conditional standard error of measurement. As compared to CTT,
where test reliability is assumed to be constant for all trait scores, test information in IRT shows
that measurement precision can differ along various ranges of the latent trait (Reise & Waller,
2002).
Prior Studies with the Interest Profiler
Numerous research studies since 1999 have used the Interest Profiler. Table 1 displays a
summary table of the reliability estimates for studies using the Interest Profiler. Although
advanced reliability assessment procedures have been proposed, not many studies have
incorporated the various reliability estimation techniques. Out of the 35 studies surveyed, the

National Center for O*NET Development

62

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
coefficient alphas across the six RIASEC interest domains show an adequate level of reliability.
Also as expected, shorter forms of the Interest Profiler have lower estimates of reliability (i.e.
smaller alpha coefficients). Estimates of Cronbach’s alpha were typically above .90 for the
180-item Long Form, above .80 for the 60-item Short Form, and above .70 for the 30-item
Mini-IP.
Psychometric Notes on Interest Profiler Scale Development
Interest Profiler Long Form (Computer-Administered and Paper-and-Pencil)
The Interest Profiler Long Form (IP Long Form) consists of 180 items and measures 6 RIASEC
domains with 30 items each. The development report (Rounds, Walker et al., 1999) showed that
the Interest Profiler had very high internal consistency across the six RIASEC scales, with
estimates ranging from .93 to .96.
Test-retest examination showed that the coefficient alphas for the different time points, and the
means and standard deviations, are very similar across time points, with the reliability estimates
at the second time-point (after an approximate one-month lapse) ranging from .91 to .97. The
test-retest correlations for the Interest Profiler RIASEC scales range from .81 to .92, indicating
that scores based on theInterest Profiler is also reliable over time.
Interest Profiler Short Form, Web-based Version
The Web-based version of the Interest Profiler Short Form (IP Short Form, Web-based version)
consists of 60 items and is perhaps the most commonly administered form of the O*NET Interest
Profiler. As indicated in the scale development report, with a developmental sample of 1,061
participants, and a test-retest sample of 132 participants, the Interest Profiler Short Form showed
sufficient internal consistency and high stability across time (see Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin,
2010). Specifically, coefficient alphas for the Short Form range from .78 to .87 (M = .81) with
the total developmental sample. In addition, in the test-retest sample coefficient alphas ranged
from .78 to .89 (M = .84) at Time 1 and from .82 to .90 (M = .86) at Time 2. Test-retest
correlations showed high correlations between the two time points, ranging from .78 to .86 (M
= .82).
Interest Profiler Mobile Form (Mini-IP)
The Mini Interest Profiler is a 30-item measure designed to assess interests on mobile platforms.
The development report showed that the coefficient alphas ranged from .70 to .75 (M = .75; see
Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, & Lewis, 2016). In addition, for a separate validation sample, the
five-item per scale Mini-IP yields coefficient alpha ranging from .74 to .81, indicating that the
Mini-IP has adequate level of internal consistency.

National Center for O*NET Development

63

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Interest Profiler Reliability Examination
To incorporate various other types of reliability information for different forms of the Interest
Profiler, empirical data sets were acquired and reanalyzed for the current manual. Coefficients
alpha and categorical omega, along with their confidence intervals, were calculated with bias
corrections and accelerated bootstrapping with 1,000 rounds of random sampling.
Interest Profiler Short Form (Web-based version) – Adult sample
Table 2a shows the alpha and omega reliability estimates for the Interest Profiler Short Form in a
sample of 575 adults. Alpha coefficients ranged from .84 to .90 with the lower-bounds of
bootstrapped confidence intervals above .82 for all RIASEC scales. Omega coefficients ranged
from .90 to .94 with the lower bounds of bootstrapped confidence intervals above .88. These two
reliability estimates showed that the Short Form has high internal consistency.
Figure 1 shows the conditional standard errors and test information of the IP Short Form by
RIASEC domains for the 575 adults. Results show that at the mid-range of the trait continuum,
the standard errors are small and the test information is peaking. This indicates that the scale
scores can be estimated reliably for the majority of people on the continuum. This is consistent
with IRT research that people at the middle range of the trait continuum—usually within one
standard deviation of the mean—are often estimated more precisely.
Interest Profiler Short Form (Paper-and-Pencil) – Incarcerated sample
Table 2b shows the alpha and omega estimates for the IP Short Form in an incarcerated sample
of 420 adults. Alpha coefficients ranged from .73 to .83, with the lower bounds of bootstrapped
confidence intervals all above .69. Omega coefficients ranged from .75 to .87, with the lower
bounds of bootstrapped confidence intervals all above .69 as well. These estimates indicate that
the paper-and-pencil version of the IP Short Form has relatively high internal consistency.
Figure 2 shows the IRT conditional standard errors and test information of the IP Short Form in
the incarcerated sample for the six domains. From the plots, it can be inferred that interest scores
can be estimated relatively reliably for people in the mid-positive range of the trait continuum
because the conditional standard error curves have the lowest points, and test information curves
have the highest peaks, in that range.
Interest Profiler Mobile Form (Mini-IP)
Table 2c shows the alpha and omega estimates for the Mini-IP in a sample of 575 adults. Alpha
coefficients ranged from .74 to .81 with the lower bounds of bootstrapped confidence intervals
all above .70. Omega coefficients ranged from .76 to .83 with the lower bounds of bootstrapped
confidence intervals all above .72. These two estimates showed that the Mobile Form has high
internal consistency.

National Center for O*NET Development

64

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Figure 3 shows the conditional standard errors and the test information of the Mini-IP in the
current sample for the six RIASEC domains. Results show that at the low-to-mid positive range
of the trait continuum, the standard errors are small and the test information is high, indicating
that the scale scores can be estimated reliably for most people on the continuum.
Interest Profiler Long Form (Paper & Pencil)
Table 2d shows the alpha and omega estimates for the original IP Long Form in a sample of 435
adults. Alpha coefficients ranged from .93 to .96, with the lower bounds of all confidence
intervals above .92. Omega coefficients also ranged from .93 to .96, with the lower bounds of all
confidence intervals above .92. These estimates indicate that the Long Form has very high
internal consistency.
Figure 4 shows the conditional standard errors and test information of the IP Long Form in a
sample of 435 adults for the six RIASEC domains. Results show that at the mid-range of the trait
continuum, the standard errors are small and the test information peaks, indicating that the scale
scores can be estimated with precision for the majority of people on the continuum.
Summary
This chapter examines the reliability from three perspectives (i.e., alpha, omega, and IRT) for the
three forms (i.e., Short Form, Long Form, and Mobile Form) of the Interest Profiler. Results
consistently show that the Interest Profiler generally has high internal consistencies and can be a
reliable measure for the majority of people on the trait continuum for the RIASEC domains.

National Center for O*NET Development

65

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Table 1. Interest Profiler reliability studies: Summary of Cronbach’s alphas
Study
Almeida,
Ahmetoglu, &
Chamorro-Premuzic,
2014
Anthoney &
Armstrong, 2010
Armstrong &
Anthoney, 2009
Armstrong, Allison,
& Rounds , 2008
Armstrong, Allison,
& Rounds , 2008
Condon, 2014
Dobson, 2010
Dobson, Gardner,
Metz, & Gore, 2014
Jonason, Wee, Li, &
Jackson, 2014
Lee, 2016
Lewis & Rivkin,
1999
Nagel, Watts,
Murphy, &
Lilienfeld, 2018

Sample
Rating
Sample
composition
scale
size
points
Employed
adults
565
5
College
students
College
students
College
students
College
students
Online
sample
High school
students
High school
students
Employed
adults
College
students
Mixed
sample
US MTurk

National Center for O*NET Development

IP
measure

R

I

A

S

E

C

IP-60

0.88

0.91

0.86

0.83

0.82

0.87

Note

1020

5

IP-180

0.87

Only reported mean reliability

1186

5

IP-180

0.88

Only reported mean reliability

494

5

IP-180

0.95

0.95

0.96

0.95

0.93

0.97

322

5

IP-180

0.96

0.96

0.96

0.96

0.93

0.97

14882

NA

IP-60

0.86

0.88

0.84

0.80

0.82

0.85

Block missing by design

57032

3

IP-180

0.95

0.95

0.95

0.95

0.93

0.96

Same data as in Dobson et al.,
2014

57032

3

IP-180

0.95

0.95

0.95

0.95

0.93

0.96

424

5

IP-60

495

5

IP-60

0.90

0.90

0.90

0.90

0.89

0.92

1123

3

IP-180

0.95

0.95

0.96

0.96

0.95

0.97

426

NA

IP-60

0.97

0.96

0.95

0.97

0.97

0.98

0.88

66

only reported mean reliability

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Neukrug, Sparkman,
& Moe, 2017
Rounds, Hoff, Chu,
Lewis, & Gregory,
2018
Rounds, Hoff, Chu,
Lewis, & Gregory,
2018
Rounds, Wee, Cao,
Song, Lewis, 2016
Rounds, Wee, Cao,
Song, Lewis, 2016
Rounds, Wee, Cao,
Song, Lewis, 2016
Rounds, Wee, Cao,
Song, Lewis, 2016
Rounds, Phan,
Amrhein, & Lewis,
2016
Rounds, Phan,
Amrhein, & Lewis,
2016
Rounds, Phan,
Amrhein, & Lewis,
2016
Rounds, Phan,
Amrhein, & Lewis,
2016
Russell, 2007
Tay, Su, & Rounds,
2011

Human
services
professionals
Incarcerated
sample
School
sample
Mixed
sample
Mixed
sample
Mixed
sample
Mixed
sample
College
students

355

5

IP-60

0.89

0.92

0.88

0.79

0.89

0.91

421

2

IP-60

0.73

0.81

0.75

0.78

0.77

0.83

140

2

IP-60

0.60

0.70

0.69

0.68

0.72

0.79

1061

3

IP-60

0.78

0.82

0.78

0.78

0.87

0.83

1061

3

IP-30

0.73

0.74

0.75

0.70

0.71

0.74

575

5

IP-60

0.88

0.90

0.90

0.89

0.89

0.90
Based on the same sample

575

5

IP-30

0.81

0.80

0.81

0.79

0.74

0.79

149

5

IP-60

0.89

0.89

0.88

0.87

0.84

0.92

College
students

144

5

IP-60

0.88

0.92

0.88

0.87

0.82

0.92

College
students

151

5

IP-60

0.84

0.86

0.87

0.88

0.81

0.90

College
students

133

5

IP-60

0.89

0.93

0.91

0.88

0.88

0.91

320

3

IP-180

0.95

0.94

0.93

0.94

0.91

0.95

1061

3

IP-180

0.93

0.94

0.94

0.95

0.30

0.96

College
students
Mixed
sample

National Center for O*NET Development

Same data as in Tay et al.,
2009

67

Emoji scale

Emoji scale

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Warlick, Ingram,
Ternes, & Krieshok,
2018
Wee, 2016
Wiegand & Bruno,
2018
Wiegand, 2018
Wiegand, 2018

College
students
College
students
Union
workers
Employed
adults
US MTurk

National Center for O*NET Development

397

5

IP-60

0.90

0.88

0.86

0.78

0.75

0.89

510

5

IP-60

777

7

IP-60

0.90

0.92

0.88

0.82

0.86

0.90

3824

6

IP-60

0.90

0.91

0.88

0.87

0.87

0.92

1657

6

IP-60

0.89

0.91

0.89

0.86

0.84

0.90

0.83

68

Only reported mean reliability

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Table 2. Reliability estimation of IP Short Form, Long Form, and Mini
Measure
and sample size

(a)
Short Form,
Web-based
N = 575

(b)
Short Form,
Paper-and-Pencil
N = 420

(c)
Mini-IP
N = 575

(d)
IP Long Form
N = 435

Factors

Cronbach's alpha

Omega categorical

Estimate

CI_Lower

CI_Upper

Estimate

CI_Lower

CI_Upper

R

0.875

0.859

0.890

0.909

0.889

0.923

I

0.894

0.879

0.908

0.913

0.896

0.924

A

0.892

0.876

0.905

0.937

0.919

0.949

S

0.880

0.862

0.896

0.902

0.882

0.917

E

0.848

0.827

0.867

0.905

0.881

0.926

C

0.897

0.883

0.910

0.923

0.902

0.935

R

0.732

0.691

0.772

0.751

0.688

0.788

I

0.814

0.779

0.844

0.825

0.771

0.856

A

0.749

0.707

0.793

0.813

0.747

0.857

S

0.776

0.739

0.807

0.791

0.740

0.818

E

0.773

0.737

0.801

0.808

0.754

0.831

C

0.831

0.802

0.858

0.867

0.818

0.888

R

0.809

0.777

0.833

0.821

0.784

0.846

I

0.794

0.758

0.824

0.820

0.786

0.849

A

0.801

0.768

0.826

0.834

0.802

0.857

S

0.777

0.739

0.806

0.796

0.760

0.824

E

0.735

0.698

0.768

0.758

0.715

0.791

C

0.782

0.746

0.811

0.796

0.755

0.825

R

0.937

0.927

0.945

0.938

0.929

0.947

I

0.943

0.935

0.950

0.943

0.936

0.951

A

0.948

0.942

0.954

0.949

0.942

0.955

S

0.951

0.945

0.957

0.952

0.946

0.958

E

0.926

0.915

0.936

0.927

0.917

0.937

C

0.962

0.956

0.966

0.962

0.957

0.967

National Center for O*NET Development

69

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Figure 1. IRT conditional standard errors and test information for the IP Short Form, Web-based version (N =
475)

National Center for O*NET Development

70

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Figure 2. IRT conditional standard errors and test information for the IP Short Form, Paper & Pencil version (N
= 420)

National Center for O*NET Development

71

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Figure 3. IRT conditional standard errors and test information for the Mini-IP (N = 575)

National Center for O*NET Development

72

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
Figure 4. IRT conditional standard errors and test information for the IP Long Form (N = 435)

National Center for O*NET Development

73

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
References
Almeida, P. I., Ahmetoglu, G., & Chamorro-Premuzic, T. (2014). Who wants to be an
entrepreneur? The relationship between vocational interests and individual differences in
entrepreneurship. Journal of Career Assessment, 22(1), 102-112.
Anthoney, S. F., & Armstrong, P. I. (2010). Individuals and environments: Linking ability and
skill ratings with interests. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 57(1), 36-51.
Armstrong, P. I., Allison, W., & Rounds, J. (2008). Development and initial validation of brief
public domain RIASEC marker scales. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 73(2), 287-299.
Armstrong, P. I., & Anthoney, S. F. (2009). Personality facets and RIASEC interests: An
integrated model. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 75(3), 346-359.
Birnbaum, A. (1968). Some latent trait models and their use in inferring an examinee's ability. In
F. M. Lord and M. R. Novich, Statistical Theories of Mental Test Scores. Reading,
Mass.: Addison-Wesley.
Condon, D. M. (2014). An Organizational Framework for the Psychological Individual
Differences: Integrating the Affective, Cognitive, and Conative Domains (Doctoral
dissertation, Northwestern University).
Cronbach, L. J. (1951). Coefficient alpha and the internal structure of tests. Psychometrika, 16,
297–334.
Dobson, L. K. (2010). Exploring the relationship between career interests and work values as
measured by the Choices Career Information Delivery System. (Doctoral dissertation,
University of Utah).
Dobson, L. K., Gardner, M. K., Metz, A. J., & Gore, P. A., Jr. (2014). The relationship between
interests and values in career decision making: The need for an alternative method of
measuring values. Journal of Career Assessment, 22(1), 113-122.
Dunn, T. J., Baguley, T., & Brunsden, V. (2014). From alpha to omega: A practical solution to
the pervasive problem of internal consistency estimation. British Journal of
Psychology, 105(3), 399-412.
Embretson, S. E., & Reise, S. P. (2000). Multivariate Applications Books Series. Item response
theory for psychologists. Mahwah, NJ, US: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Publishers.
Jonason, P. K., Wee, S., Li, N. P., & Jackson, C. (2014). Occupational niches and the Dark Triad
traits. Personality and Individual Differences, 69, 119-123.
Kelley, K., & Preacher, K. J. (2012). On effect size. Psychological Methods, 17, 137–152.

National Center for O*NET Development

74

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE

Lee, P. (2016). Investigating Parameter Recovery and Item Information for Triplet
Multidimensional Forced Choice Measure: An Application of the GGUM-RANK Model.
(Doctoral dissertation, University of South Florida).
Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of the O* NET interest profiler. National Center
for O* NET Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP.html>
Lord, F. I., & Novick, M. R. (1968). Statistical theories of mental test scores. Cambridge, MA:
Addison-Wesley.
McDonald, R. P. (1999). Test theory: A unified treatment. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Nagel, M. G., Watts, A. L., Murphy, B. A., & Lilienfeld, S. O. (2018). Psychopathy and interests:
Implications of psychopathic personality traits for vocational and avocational
preferences. Personality Disorders: Theory, Research, and Treatment, 9(5), 484-489.
Neukrug, E., Sparkman, N., & Moe, J. (2017). The Holland code of members of the national
organization for human services: A preliminary study of human services
professionals. Journal of Employment Counseling, 54(4), 146-155.
Nunnally, B. H., & Bernstein, J. C. (1994). Psychometric theory (3rd ed.). London, UK:
McGraw-Hill.
Raykov, T. (1997). Scale reliability, Cronbach’s coefficient alpha, and violations of essential
tau-equivalence with fixed congeneric components. Multivariate Behavioral Research,
32,
329–353.
Raykov, T. (1998). Coefficient alpha and composite reliability
nonhomogeneous
items. Applied Psychological Measurement, 22, 375–385.

with

interrelated

Reise, S. P., & Waller, N. G. (2002). Item response theory for dichotomous assessment data. In F.
Drasgow & N. Schmitt (Eds.), The Jossey-Bass business & management series.
Measuring and analyzing behavior in organizations: Advances in measurement and data
analysis (pp. 88-122). San Francisco, CA, US: Jossey-Bass.
Rounds, J., Hoff, K., Chu, C., Lewis, P., & Gregory, C. (2018). O*NET Interest Profiler short
form paper-and-pencil version: Evaluation of self-scoring and psychometric
characteristics. National Center for O*Net Development, Raleigh, NC.
<http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_PP.html>
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S. E., Smith, T. J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P. & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
computerized Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. National Center

National Center for O*NET Development

75

CHAPTER 5: RELIABILITY EVIDENCE
for
O*Net
Development,
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/CIP_RVC.html>

Raleigh,

NC.

<

Rounds, J., Phan, W. M. J., Amrhein, R., & Lewis, P. (2016). Examining the Efficacy of Emoji
Anchors for the O* NET Interest Profiler Short Form. National Center for O* NET
Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_Emoji.html>
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET Interest Profiler short form
psychometric characteristics: Summary. National Center for O*Net Development,
Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_Psychometric.html>
Rounds, J., Walker, C. R., Day, S. X., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. National Center for O*Net
Development, Raleigh, NC. < http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IP_RVS.html>
Rounds, J., Wee, J. M. C., Cao, M., Song, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Development of an O*NET
Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) for mobile devices: Psychometric characteristics.
National
Center
for
O*Net
Development,
Raleigh,
NC.
<http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/Mini-IP.html>
Russell, M. (2007). Assessing vocational interests: Convergence and divergence of inventories
and informants. (Doctoral dissertation, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign).
Tay,

L., Su, R., & Rounds, J. (2011). People–things and
dimensions?. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 58(3), 424-440.

data–ideas:

Bipolar

Warlick, C. A., Ingram, P. B., IV., Ternes, M. S., & Krieshok, T. S. (2018). An investigation into
the structural form of the O* NET–interest profiler–short form. Journal of Career
Assessment, 26(3), 503-514.
Wee, J. M. C. (2016). Deciphering the general factor in interest measures: response style or
attitude (Master Thesis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign).
Wiegand, J. P. (2018). Not all misfit is equal: a re-examination of vocational interest fit and job
satisfaction (Doctoral dissertation, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign).
Wiegand, J. P., & Bruno, R. (2018). Job Satisfaction and Union Participation: The Role of
Fit. Labor Studies Journal, 43(4), 297-319.

National Center for O*NET Development

76

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
CHAPTER 6
Validity Evidence for the Interest Profiler
Chu Chu
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The validity chapter describes the following for each form and version of the Interest Profiler
(IP)
• Sample descriptions for studies used to validate the IP
• Different types of validity examined
• Results from each type of validity analysis
• Self-scoring accuracy for Paper & Pencil forms of the IP
• Implications drawn from the validity studies
A series of studies were conducted to examine the psychometric properties of the Interest
Profiler. These studies have generally used participant samples that are broadly representative of
people seeking employment. This chapter summarizes existing research reports and integrates
evidence about the validity of each form and version of the Interest Profiler. The chapter begins
by discussing validity studies on the IP Long Form, followed by the IP Short Form, and Mini-IP.
Overall, all forms of the Interest Profiler fit Holland’s (1997) circular RIASEC structure and
show expected convergent and discriminant relations with RIASEC scales from other interest
inventories. In addition, the Paper-and-Pencil versions of the Long and Short Forms allow test
takers to accurately conduct self-scoring and calculate their results.
Validity of the Interest Profiler Long Form
The Interest Profiler Long Form has both a paper-and-pencil (P & P) version and a
computer-administered version. The two versions have the same content, but the items are
presented on a computer for the IP Long Form, Computer-Administered Version (CIP). For both
versions, a set of analyses were conducted to assess the validity of the measure. Two reports
investigated the validity of the Interest Profiler Long Form: Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis,
and Rivkin (1999) focused on the paper-and-pencil version, and Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert,
Lewis and Rivkin (1999) focused on the computer-administered version.
The Interest Profiler Long Form, Paper-and-Pencil version (IP Long Form, P & P) was the first
vocational interest measure developed and it comprises of 180 items. Several analyses were
conducted to assess the convergent and structural validity for the IP Long Form, P & P. Overall,
results revealed that the IP Long Form, P & P fits the circular structure of interests and shows
high convergent validity with existing interest measures. Self-scoring analyses revealed that
people were able to correctly calculate their scores for the Interest Profiler. In addition, analyses
conducted to investigate the validity of CIP showed that the CIP is highly comparable to the IP
Long Form, P & P.

National Center for O*NET Development

77

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Interest Profiler Long Form, Paper-and-Pencil Version
Sample. To develop and examine the psychometric properties of the IP Long Form,
Paper-and-Pencil version, Rounds, Walker, Day, Hubert, Lewis, and Rivkin (1999) used the
sample shown in Table 1. These 1,061 participants were collected from four states: Michigan,
New York, North Carolina, and Utah. Data collection sites included employment service offices,
high schools, junior colleges, technical-trade schools, universities, and government agencies. The
sample represents a wide range of people in career development situations, particularly those
seeking employment positions that require lower levels of formal training or education. The
sample was 41% male and 59% female. Participants were heterogeneous in terms of ethnic
diversity (25% African- American, 59% White non-Hispanics, 10% Hispanic, and 6% members
of other racial/ethnic groups). These participants were paid $15 each to reimburse them for travel
expenses.

National Center for O*NET Development

78

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 1. Description of Developmental Sample

Characteristic
Gender
Male
Female
Age
18 or less
19 to 22
23 to 30
31 to 40
41 to 50
> 50
Education
Less than high school
High school degree
Some college to BA
> 16 years
Ethnicity
White
African American
Hispanic
Native American
Asian or Pacific Is.
Other
Employment status
Unemployed
Part-time
Full-time
Military
Student status
High school
Junior coll/vocational
College
Region
East (New York)
West (Utah
North (Michigan)
South (North Carolina)

n

%

437
624

41.19
58.81

101
171
257
250
181
98

9.55
16.16
24.29
23.63
17.11
9.26

216
405
386
44

20.55
38.53
36.73
4.19

620
264
107
27
16
17

58.99
25.12
10.18
2.57
1.52
1.62

658
216
179
1

62.43
20.49
16.98
.09

83
84
144

26.69
27.01
46.30

292
272
217
280

27.52
25.64
20.45
26.39

Note. N = 1061. Column n’s may not always sum up to total N because of missing data.

National Center for O*NET Development

79

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Procedure. To assess validity and reliability, participants were recruited to take both the IP Long
Form, P & P and an established RIASEC Interest measure—the Interest Finder (Wall, Wise, &
Baker, 1996; Wall & Baker, 1997) for comparison. Participants were separated into two groups:
one group first took the non-self-scoring IP Long Form, P & P and then the self-scoring Interest
Finder; the other group first took the non-self-scoring Interest Finder and then the self-scoring IP
Long Form, P & P. In both groups, participants took the non-self-scoring measures first in order
to avoid biases in their responses to the second measure if they had known their interest scores.
Scoring. Self-scoring analyses were conducted to assess whether participants were able to
accurately calculate their own scores. For both measures, a difference score (true score –
self-score) was calculated to determine whether a participant counted the number of likes
correctly. “True scores” were calculated by a computerized count of the number of likes. For the
IP Long Form, P & P, 89-92% of participants correctly counted their like responses depending
on the RIASEC type. This accuracy is comparable to the accuracy of the Interest Finder and
suggests that self-scoring is an accurate method for both measures.
Convergent Validity. To assess the convergent validity of the Interest Profiler Long Form, P
& P, participants’ scores from the IP were compared to their scores from the Interest Finder.
Scores were compared in terms of cross-correlation matrices, cross-classification analyses, and
profile analyses. Convergent validity was supported by showing that the IP Long Form, P & P
measures similar constructs to existing vocational interest measures (i.e., the Interest Finder).
Cross-correlations between the six RIASEC scales were calculated from the IP Long Form, P
& P and the Interest Finder. Because both measures were designed to measure Holland’s (1997)
RIASEC types, matching interest scales from the two measures were expected to show the
highest correlations with each other. Matching interest scale correlations are positioned on the
main diagonal of the cross-correlation table. As shown in Table 2 below, the highest
correlations are in the main diagonal, compared to the off-diagonal correlations, supporting the
convergent validity of the two measures. Cross-correlations along the main diagonal ranged
from .73 (Enterprising) to 0.84 (Conventional).

National Center for O*NET Development

80

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE

Table 2. Cross Correlations between Interest Profiler and Interest Finder RIASEC Scales

Interest

Interest Finder

Profiler

R

I

A

S

E

C

R

.80

.32

.18

.17

.23

.14

I

.29

.79

.48

.42

.41

.15

A

.16

.30

.83

.48

.51

.15

S

.17

.28

.37

.77

.41

.34

E

.29

.24

.41

.49

.73

.46

C

.09

.12

.17

.33

.38

.84

Note. N = 1061. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C =
conventional
Cross-classification analyses using high-point codes were also conducted to assess the
comparability of the two measures. High-point codes reflect the strongest (i.e., dominant) interest
scale for each participant. Table 3 displays results of high-point code agreement from the two
measures. In general, there was considerable agreement among high point codes, as indicated by
the bolded values along the main diagonal. Some discrepancies were found with the
classification for enterprising high-point codes.

National Center for O*NET Development

81

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 3. Cross-Classification of the RIASEC High Point Codes for the Interest Profiler & Interest Finder
Interest
Interest Finder
Profiler
R
I
A
S
E
R
75
5
0
4
11
I
10
134
12
7
26
A
14
15
91
23
33
S
16
30
9
136
39
E
4
4
1
5
39
C
7
8
7
13
27
Total N
126
196
120
188
175

C
3
9
12
41
10
181
256

Total N
98
198
188
271
63
243
1061

Row Percents
S
E
C
Total N
R
4.08
11.22
3.06
98
I
3.54
13.13
4.55
198
A
12.23
17.55
6.38
188
S
50.19
14.39
15.13
271
E
7.94
61.91
15.87
63
C
5.35
11.11
74.49
243
Total %
17.72
16.49
24.13
Total N
188
175
256
1061
Column Percents
R
I
A
S
E
C
Total %
Total N
R
59.52
2.55
0.0
2.13
6.29
1.17
9.24
98
I
7.93
68.37
10.00
3.72
14.86
3.52
18.66
198
A
11.11
7.65
75.83
12.23
18.86
4.69
17.72
188
S
12.70
15.31
7.50
72.34
22.29
16.02
25.54
271
E
3.18
2.04
0.83
2.66
22.29
3.91
5.94
63
C
5.56
4.08
5.83
6.92
15.43
70.70
22.90
243
Total N
126
196
120
188
175
256
1061
Note. Cohen Coefficient Kappa = 0.54, R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising, C = Conventional
R
76.53
5.05
7.45
5.90
6.35
2.88
11.88
126

National Center for O*NET Development

I
5.10
67.68
7.98
11.07
6.35
3.29
18.47
196

A
0.0
6.06
48.40
3.32
1.59
2.88
11.31
120

82

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Profile analyses were carried out to examine the degree of parallelism between the two measures.
A high degree of parallelism indicates that the two measures would provide the same participant
with similar results. In the profile analysis, a participant’s score on each scale of the instrument
was the dependent variable, and the interest measure (Interest Profiler or Interest Finder) and
RIASEC scale category were the independent variables. An absence of an interaction between
measurements indicates comparability between the two interest measures.
Table 4 displays the results for the profile analysis. The interaction term is significant, which
means that the two measures are not perfectly comparable. Investigative, artistic, and social
scales for the two measures have similar means, while the other three scales do not. The largest
difference was observed between the two enterprising scales and the next largest is realistic
scales.
Overall, the cross-correlation matrix, cross-classification analyses, and profile analysis showed
that the IP Long Form, P & P has strong convergent validity with the Interest Finder on most
interest types.
Table 4. Analysis of Variance for Interest Profiler/Interest Finder and RIASEC Codes
Source
df
SS
MS
F

p-value

Scale
Error

1
1060

11.573
39.223

11.573
.037

312.750

.000

RIASEC
Error

5
5300

31.742
508.189

6.348
.096

66.210

.000*

Scale*RIASEC
5
8.360
1.673
127.568
.000*
Error
5300
69.466
.013
*Geisser-Greenhouse/Huynh-Feldt corrections or Wilks lamda provide p-values of the same
magnitude
Listing of
Means:
IP

R

I

A

S

E

C

.30

.45

.44

.52

.37

.44

Marginal
Mean
.42

IF
Marginal Mean

.40
.35

.45
.45

.46
.45

.53
.52

.52
.45

.50
.47

.48
.45

Listing of
Standard
Deviations:
IP

R

I

A

S

E

C

.26

.30

.30

.31

.27

.33

IF

.26

.30

.27

.27

.27

.31

Note. R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising, C = Conventional

National Center for O*NET Development

83

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE

Structural Validity. The structural validity of the IP Long Form, P & P was examined through
Principal Component Analysis, Randomization tests, and Multidimensional Scaling. Principal
Component Analysis (PCA) was conducted on both the IP Long Form, P & P and the Interest
Finder for two purposes. First, PCA was conducted to examine whether the Interest Profiler
sufficiently minimized a yeah-saying and nay-saying response style. Second, PCA examined
whether the IP Long Form, P & P meet the traditional benchmarks for the size of the general
factor and the substantive factors. Each PCA analysis was conducted on the correlation matrices
(N =1,061) and each extracted three factors, one general factor and two substantive factors.
Yea-saying and nay-saying response styles refer to respondent’s tendency to always agree or
disagree with the interest item. The first general factor extracted from PCA had been considered
to reflect such response styles and a larger general factor could be an indicator of response bias
(Jackson, 1977; Prediger, 1982; also, see Wee, 2016). Because the IP Long Form, P & P was
designed to minimize a yea-saying and nay-say response style, it was expected that the general
factor extracted from Interest Profiler would be smaller than the general factor extracted from the
Interest Finder. Indeed, the results showed that the IP Long Form, P & P has a smaller general
factor (eigenvalue = 2.62, total variance accounted for = 43.60%) compared to the general factor
extracted from Interest Finder (eigenvalue = 2.96, total variance accounted for = 49.47%). The
two substantive factors extracted for the IP Long Form, P & P (variance accounted for = 17.10%;
14.49%) also compares favorably with previous benchmarks (Prediger, 1982).
Randomization tests were conducted to assess whether the structure of the RIASEC scales
adheres to Holland’s circular model. The tests were carried out for both the IP Long Form, P & P
and the Interest Finder. The Holland (1997) RIASEC model has a circular structure which
indicates a particular pattern of relations among the six interest types. For example, Realistic is
expected to have higher correlations with Investigative and Conventional scales and lowest
correlation with Social scale. Therefore, the intercorrelations of scales within each measure were
used to conduct randomization tests.
A correspondence index (CI) was reported as the result of the randomization test. CI’s ranged
from -1.00 to +1.00 where +1.00 indicates a perfect model-data fit. The results show that Interest
Profiler (CI = .40) was a less optimal fit to the hypothesized circular structure of RIASEC model
compared to the Interest Finder (CI = .60). A closer look at the intercorrelations for the Interest
Profiler suggested an issue with the Enterprising scale: the correlation between the Enterprising
scale and the Artistic scale was higher than the correlation between the Enterprising scale and the
Social scale. Also, for both the Interest Profiler and Interest Finder, the Realistic and
Conventional scales had lower intercorrelations than between the Realistic and Enterprising
scales, which is a typical finding in the RIASEC structural literature (Rounds & Day, 1999).

National Center for O*NET Development

84

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 5. RIASEC Scale Intercorrelations for the Interest Profiler (lower-triangular portion)
and Interest Finder (upper-triangular portion)

R

I

A

S

E

C

R

--

.43

.27

.25

.29

.19

I

.31

--

.46

.43

.41

.22

A

.17

.45

--

.57

.53

.23

S

.17

.38

.38

--

.62

.42

E

.36

.30

.49

.45

--

.45

C

.10

.13

.17

.33

.50

--

Note. N = 1061. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising,
C = conventional. Randomization test: Interest Profiler CI = .40, p = .02; Interest Finder CI = .60,
p = .02
Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) is applied to visualize the relations between interest types in a
two-dimensional space. It is a more direct way to examine whether the structure of the IP Long
Form, P & P’s RIASEC scales fit with Holland’s circular model. Within-measure intercorrelation
matrices for the IP Long Form, P & P and the Interest Finder were used to conduct separate
multidimensional scaling analyses.
Two-dimensional solutions fitted the data well and Table 6 displays the coordinates for both
solutions. For the IP Long Form, P & P, the solution explained 94% of the variation (RSQ = .94).
Figures 1 and 2 display the solutions graphically. The circular RIASEC structure was clear for
both measures. However, for the Interest Profiler and Interest Finder, the Enterprising scale was
not in an ideal position given the RIASEC hexagon. For the Interest Profiler, the Enterprising
scale was found toward the center of the plot, reflecting its stronger than expected relation with
the Realistic and Artistic scales. For the Interest Finder, the Enterprising scale is barely
differentiated from the Social scale. For both measures, the distance between the Realistic and
Conventional scale was greater than would be expected given a circular structure, a finding that
has been replicated in several meta-structural studies (Tracey & Rounds, 1992; Rounds & Tracey,
1993).
Multidimensional scaling was also conducted on the intercorrelation matrix between the Interest
Profiler and the Interest Finder, and the two-dimensional solution has an RSQ = .95.
Two-dimension coordinates are given in Table 7. Figure 3 graphically displays the results and
shows that the corresponding RIASEC scales of the two measures cluster together in a circular
fashion, providing strong support that these two interest inventories assess the same RIASEC
domains.

National Center for O*NET Development

85

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 6. Two-Dimensional MDS Coordinate Values for the RIASEC Scales of the Interest
Profiler and Interest Finder
Interest Profiler
Interest Finder
I

II

I

R
I

.97
.74

1.02
-.36

1.23
.74

.76
-.27

A

.19

-.89

.05

-.90

S

-.44

-.59

-.49

-.33

E

-.25

.20

-.48

-.14

C

-1.22

.62

-1.05

.88

II

Note. N = 1061. The Profiler and Finder were scaled separately. Interest Profiler Kruskal
STRESS = .09 and RSQ = .94. Interest Finder Kruskal STRESS = .02 and RSQ = 1.00.
R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C = conventional.

National Center for O*NET Development

86

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Figure 1.

Figure 2.

National Center for O*NET Development

87

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 7. Two-Dimensional MDS Solution for the RIASEC Scales of the Interest Profiler and
Interest Finder

I

II

R
I

.91
.78

1.08
-.38

A

.15

-.97

S

-.69

-.58

E

-.38

.23

C

-1.28

.56

R

.91

.90

I

.96

-.18

A

.29

-.83

S

-.33

-.41

E

-.18

-.02

C

-1.12

.61

IP

IF

Note. N = 1061. Kruskal STRESS = .09 and RSQ = .95. R = realistic,
I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C =
conventional.

National Center for O*NET Development

88

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE

Figure 3.

National Center for O*NET Development

89

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Interest Profiler Long Form, Computer-Administer Version
Rounds, Mazzeo, Smith, Hubert, Lewis and Rivkin (1999) investigated the validity of the
Computer-Administered Interest Profiler (CIP). The CIP shares the same content as the IP Long
Form, P & P, but the items are presented on a computer screen and it does not allow respondents
to skip items. In order to assess the comparability between the CIP and the IP Long Form, P&P,
a total of 435 participants were recruited and completed both measures. The majority of the
participants were female (61.4%), and most of the participants were unemployed and did not
hold a bachelor’s degree.
To assess the convergent validity of CIP, circular scale scores were calculated between the CIP
and IP Long Form, P & P. Circular scale score is a value ranging from 0 to 3 that indicates the
similarity of a pair of codes with respect to their proximity on the RIASEC hexagonal structure.
Perfectly matched codes would receive a circular scale score of 3, while the most dissimilar
codes (e.g., R vs. S) receive a scale score of 0. Circular scale scores were calculated between
participants’ CIP scores and their ideal and current occupation interest profiles. Circular scale
scores were also calculated between participants’ IP Long Form, P & P scores and their ideal and
current occupation interest profiles. Results presented in Table 8 suggest that the two IP versions
yielded almost exact fits to current and ideal occupations. Furthermore, as expected, ideal
occupations were more likely than current occupations (or last job held) to agree with
participants’ first-letter IP code (p < .001).
Profile congruence indices were also calculated to assess the comparability between the two
versions of the IP Long Form. A high congruence index indicates that the CIP and P & P
versions would give the same participant similar results. Iachan M Index (Iachan, 1984a, 1984b),
the Brown and Gore C index (Brown & Gore, 1994), and a revised version of the Brown and
Gore C index (C-rev) were the three profile congruence indices calculated for this analysis. All
three indices gave very high values (.76 to .90) when comparing the profiles from each IP
version, indicating a high degree of profile similarity and convergent validity. Profile Analysis
and cross-correlation matrices were also used to assess the comparability between the two
versions of the IP and both analyses showed that the CIP is highly similar to the IP Long Form, P
& P. In summary, the P & P and computer-administered version of the IP Long Form yield
similar RIASEC scores and can be used interchangeably.

National Center for O*NET Development

90

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 8. Means and Standard Deviations of Circular Scale Scores
Current
occupation

Ideal
occupation

Paper & Pencil IP

M
1.60

SD
1.04

M
1.90

SD
1.03

Computerized IP

1.59

1.03

1.90

1.02

Note. n = 435 for current and ideal occupation and n = 362 for Self-Description Questionnaire
(SDQ).

National Center for O*NET Development

91

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Validity of the Interest Profiler Short Form
In this section of the validity chapter, we focus on the validity analyses of the O*NET
Interest Profiler Short Form (IP Short Form). The IP Short Form was developed by selecting
60-items from the IP Long Form’s 180 items, with 10 items per RIASEC scale. The IP Short
Form was developed to be a more efficient and practical tool to assess interests, and also to
select items that could improve model fit and the endorsement rate on the Enterprising scale.
Two reports investigated the validity of the Interest Profiler Short Form: Rounds, Su, Lewis
and Rivkin (2010) focused on the web-based IP Short Form and Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Lewis
and Gregory (2018) focused on the Paper-and-Pencil (P & P) version. A series of analyses
were done to assess the convergent and structural validity of the IP Short Form, with the IP
Long Form and the Interest Finder serving as comparisons.
Overall, the IP Short Form RIASEC scores are highly comparable with the IP Long Form
and the Interest Finder RIASEC scores. The IP Short Form has excellent fit with Holland’s
RIASEC structure and it showed better endorsements on the Enterprising scale compared to
the IP Long Form. Additionally, research using emoji anchors for the IP Short Form showed
higher predictive validity towards job satisfaction compare to the traditional lexical item
anchors (Phan, Amrhein, Rounds, & Lewis, 2017).
Besides the two versions of the O*NET IP Short Form, other short interest measures have
been created from the initial 180 Interest Profiler items. For example, Armstrong, Allison,
and Rounds (2008) documented the development and validation of two 8-item RIASEC
scales that are comprised of selected items from the 180 IP items. The purpose for
developing these scales was to provide brief, public-domain RIASEC measures that could be
used in research studies. The authors illustrated strong reliability and validity for both IP
scales, providing evidence that Interest Profiler items are excellent reflections of the
RIASEC construct domains. Beyond developing shorter interest measures, IP items had also
been used to show the duality of vocational personality (Phan & Rounds, 2018).
Interest Profiler Short Form, Web-based Version
Sample. To develop and examine psychometric properties of the IP Short Form, Rounds, Su,
Lewis and Rivkin (2010) used the sample collected for the initial development of Interest
Profiler Long Form, P & P Version (see Table 1).
Scoring. Different from the Interest Profiler Long Form, the web-based IP Short Form has a
five-point response format. Participants indicated their interest in each activity item from 0 =
“strongly dislike,” 1 = “dislike,” 2 = “unsure,” 3 = “like,” and 4 = “strongly like.” Scores are
computed by summing responses for each of the six Holland types with a score range of 0 to 40.
Convergent Validity. To assess the convergent validity of the Interest Profiler Short Form,
participants’ scores from the IP Short Form were compared to their scores from the IP Long
Form and the Interest Finder. Scores were compared in terms of cross-correlation matrices,
cross-classification analyses, and profile analyses. Convergent validity was supported by

National Center for O*NET Development

92

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
showing that the IP Short Form, P &P measures similar constructs to both the IP Long Form and
the Interest Finder (Wall & Baker, 1997).
Cross-correlations between the six RIASEC scales calculated from 1) the IP Short Form and the
IP Long Form and 2) the IP Short Form and the Interest Finder were examined. Because all three
measures were designed to measure Holland’s RIASEC types, matching interest scales from
either two measures were expected to show the highest correlations with each other. These
matching interest correlations are positioned on the diagonal of the two correlation matrices. For
the IP Short Form and the IP Long Form, matching interest correlations ranged from .90 (Social)
to .95 (Conventional); for the IP Short Form and the Interest Finder, matching interest
correlations ranged from .74 (Social) to .82 (Conventional). Importantly, the IP Short Form and
the Interest Finder have similar patterns of correlations for the R-I-S-E scores, indicating that the
E items now tap very similar covariation as the remaining scales.
Table 9. Cross Correlations of the Interest Profiler Short Form with the Long Form and Interest
Finder

IP-S
F

Interest Profiler Long Form

Interest Finder

R

I

A

S

E

C

R

I

A

S

E

C

R

.91

.27

.13

.14

.33

.15

.76

.30

.16

.14

.22

.19

I

.34

.92

.38

.33

.26

.12

.31

.77

.41

.35

.35

.15

A

.20

.48

.91

.32

.41

.16

.20

.35

.80

.41

.44

.15

S

.11

.38

.42

.90

.42

.35

.12

.27

.41

.74

.41

.33

E

.23

.29

.48

.43

.92

.50

.20

.22

.40

.48

.75

.45

C

.18

.15

.14

.29

.47

.95

.17

.15

.15

.29

.35

.82

Note. N = 1061. R = realistic, IP-SF = Interest Profiler Short Form; I = investigative, A = artistic,
S = social, E = enterprising, C = conventional.
Profile analyses were conducted to examine whether two measures would provide the same
participant with similar results. In the profile analyses, if the participants’ interest scores aren’t
significantly predicted by the interaction effect between two measurements, this would indicate
that these two measures have good comparability. The results of the profile analyses for the
Short Form compared to the Long Form and the Interest Finder are given in Table 10 and Table
11, respectively.

National Center for O*NET Development

93

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
A significant interaction term was present for both pairs of measures, indicating that the IP Short
Form profiles were slightly different than the profiles for the IP Long Form and Interest Finder.
Importantly, the interaction term for the IP Short Form and the Interest Finder was much smaller
compared to that between the IP Long Form and the Interest Finder, suggesting a considerable
improved in fit of the RIASEC profiles. Looking at mean scale scores, the IP Short Form and
Long Form were very similar, except for a notably higher Enterprising scale score for the Short
Form. This indicates that the item selection in the development of the Short Form successfully
increased the endorsement rate for the Enterprising scale. The difference between the mean
Enterprising scale scores was substantially reduced between the IP Short Form and the Interest
Finder, compared to the Long Form and the Interest Finder. These results suggest that even
though slight differences exist among the three measures, the IP Short Form showed higher
convergent validity with the Interest Finder compared to the IP Long Form.
Table 10. Analysis of Variance for Interest Profiler Short Form/Long Form and RIASEC Codes
Source

df

SS

MS

F

p-value

Inventory
Error

1
1060

17.295
113.251

17.295
.107

161.872

.000

RIASEC
Error

5
5300

29.394
322.558

5.879
.061

96.595

.000*

Inventory*RIASEC
5
5.527
1.105
25.793
.000*
Error
5300
227.148
.043
*Geisser-Greenhouse/Huynh-Feldt corrections or Wilks lamda provide p-values of the same
magnitude
Listing of
Means:

R

I

A

S

E

C

Marginal
Mean

IP Short

.33

.42

.46

.53

.46

.46

.44

IP Long

.30

.45

.44

.52

.37

.44

.42

Marginal Mean

.32

.44

.45

.53

.42

.45

.43

Listing of
Standard Deviations:

R

I

A

S

E

C

IP Short

.27

.31

.29

.28

.30

.33

IF Long
.26
.30
.30
.31
.27
.33
Note. R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising,
C = Conventional

National Center for O*NET Development

94

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 11. Analysis of Variance for Interest Profiler Short Form/Interest Finder and RIASEC
Codes
Source
df
SS
MS
F
p-value
Inventory
Error

1
1060

5.85
87.079

5.85
.082

71.205

.000

RIASEC
Error

5
5300

28.034
332.55

5.607
.063

89.357

.000*

Inventory*RIASEC
5
5.74
1.148
27.887
.000*
Error
5300
218.193
.041
*Geisser-Greenhouse/Huynh-Feldt corrections or Wilks lamda provide p-values of the same
magnitude
Listing of
Means:

R

I

A

S

E

C

Marginal
Mean

IP

.33

.42

.46

.53

.46

.46

.44

IF

.40

.46

.46

.53

.52

.50

.48

Marginal Mean

.36

.44

.46

.53

.49

.48

.46

Listing of
Standard Deviations:
IP

R

I

A

S

E

C

.27

.31

.29

.28

.30

.33

IF

.26

.30

.27

.27

.27

.31

Note. R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising,
C = Conventional
Cross-classification analyses using high-point codes were also conducted to assess the
comparability between the IP Short Form, IP Long Form, and the Interest Finder. The results of
the cross-classification analyses are given in Tables 12 and 13, respectively. As shown in the
tables, the number of participants classified as Enterprising substantially increased in the IP
Short Form (N = 145) compared to the Long Form (N = 64). This, in turn, led to a simultaneous
increase in the number of participants classified as Enterprising by both the IP Short Form and
Interest Finder (N = 39 for the Long Form; c.f., N = 98 for the Short Form).
Cohen’s (1960) Kappa coefficient was calculated as an index to evaluate agreement between two
measures. A Kappa value smaller than .40 represents “poor” agreement, .41-.59 “fair,” .60-.74
“good,” and .75-1.00 “excellent” (Cicchetti, Bronen, Spencer, Haut, Berg, Oliver, & Tyrer, 2006;
Fleiss, Levin, & Paik, 2003). The IP Short Form and Long Form had a Kappa coefficient of .74;
the IP Short Form and the Interest Finder had a Kappa coefficient of .59. Both pairs of measures
showed impressive agreement with each other compare to traditional standards (Russell, 2007).

National Center for O*NET Development

95

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 12. Cross-Classification of the RIASEC High Point Codes for the Interest Profiler Short Form and Long Form
IP
IP Long Form
Short Form
R
I
A
S
E
C
R
85
3
1
5
0
2
I
3
142
4
11
0
0
A
1
19
133
6
2
3
S
0
13
14
209
2
9
E
7
10
26
23
59
20
C
3
9
12
20
1
204
Total N
99
196
190
274
64
238

Total N
96
160
164
247
145
249
1061

Row Percents
R
I
A
S
E
C
Total N
R
88.54
3.13
1.04
5.21
0.00
2.08
96
I
1.88
88.75
2.50
6.88
0.00
0.00
160
A
0.61
11.59
81.10
3.66
1.22
1.83
164
S
0.00
5.26
5.76
84.62
0.81
3.64
247
E
4.83
6.90
17.93
15.86
40.69
13.79
145
C
1.20
3.61
4.82
8.03
0.40
81.93
249
Total %
9.33
18.47
17.91
25.82
6.03
22.43
Total N
99
196
190
274
64
238
1061
Column Percents
R
I
A
S
E
C
Total %
Total N
R
85.86
1.53
0.53
1.82
0.00
0.84
9.05
96
I
3.03
72.45
2.11
4.01
0.00
0.00
15.08
160
A
1.01
9.69
70.00
2.19
3.13
1.26
15.46
164
S
0.00
6.63
7.37
76.28
3.13
3.78
23.28
247
E
7.07
5.10
13.68
8.39
92.19
8.40
13.67
145
C
3.03
4.59
6.32
7.30
1.56
85.71
23.47
249
Total N
99
196
190
274
64
238
1061
Note. Cohen Coefficient Kappa = 0.54, R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising, C = Conventional

National Center for O*NET Development

96

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 13. Cross-Classification of the RIASEC High Point Codes for the Interest Profiler Short Form and Interest Finder
IP
Interest Finder
Short Form
R
I
A
S
E
C
R
83
4
1
2
7
2
I
4
123
4
8
10
4
A
12
19
80
16
15
5
S
9
27
11
130
29
28
E
6
9
8
18
98
32
C
10
18
11
7
22
189
Total N
124
200
115
181
181
260

Total N
99
153
147
234
171
257
1061

Row Percents
R
I
A
S
E
C
Total N
R
83.84
4.04
1.01
2.02
7.07
2.02
99
I
2.61
80.39
2.61
5.23
6.54
2.61
153
A
8.16
12.93
54.42
10.88
10.20
3.40
147
S
3.85
11.54
4.70
55.56
12.39
11.97
234
E
3.51
5.26
4.68
10.53
57.31
18.71
171
C
3.89
7.00
4.28
2.72
8.56
73.54
257
Total %
11.69
18.85
10.84
17.06
17.06
24.51
Total N
124
200
115
181
181
260
1061
Column Percents
R
I
A
S
E
C
Total %
Total N
R
66.94
2.00
0.87
1.10
3.87
0.77
9.33
99
I
3.23
61.50
3.48
4.42
5.52
1.54
14.42
153
A
9.68
9.50
69.57
8.84
8.29
1.92
13.85
147
S
7.26
13.50
9.57
71.82
16.02
10.77
22.05
234
E
4.84
4.50
6.96
9.94
54.14
12.31
16.12
171
C
8.06
9.00
9.57
3.87
12.15
72.69
24.22
257
Total N
124
200
115
181
181
260
1061
Note. Cohen Coefficient Kappa = 0.54, R = Realistic, I = Investigative, A = Artistic, S = Social, E = Enterprising, C = Conventional

National Center for O*NET Development

97

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Structural Validity. The structural validity of the IP Short Form was examined through Randomization
Tests, Multidimensional Scaling (MDS), and Circular Unidimensional Scaling (CUS). Each set of
analyses assessed whether the IP Short Form fit with the hypothesized circular RIASEC structure. The
same set of analyses were also conducted on the IP Long Form as a comparison. Such comparisons were
useful because the Short Form attempts to address two issues previously found in the Long Form: 1) the
Enterprising scale was more highly correlated with Artistic scale than the Social scale; and 2) the
Realistic scale was more highly correlated with the Enterprising scale than the Conventional scale.
Randomization tests were conducted on the intercorrelation matrices for both the IP Short Form and
Long Form to examine whether the two measures correspond to the hypothesized order of RIASEC.
Correspondence index (CI) was reported as the result of the randomization test and it is ranged from
-1.00 to +1.00 with more positive values indicating the data has a better fit to the hypothesized order.
The results showed that indeed the Short Form (CI = .69, p = .02) has a better fit to the circular RIASEC
structure compared to the Long Form (CI = .40, p = .02). The Short Form also had a higher CI compared
to the benchmark value (CI = .67; Rounds & Tracey, 1996), which suggested that the Short Form fit the
RIASEC model better than many other RIASEC measures.
Table 14. RIASEC Scale Intercorrelations for the Interest Profiler Short Form (lower-triangle) and
Long Form (upper-triangle)
R

I

A

S

E

C

R
I

-.31

.31
--

.17
.45

.17
.38

.36
.30

.10
.13

A

.18

.41

--

.38

.49

.17

S

.10

.31

.37

--

.45

.33

E

.22

.26

.40

.41

--

.50

C

.22

.14

.15

.30

.46

--

Note. N = 1061. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising,
C = conventional. Randomization test: Interest Profiler Short Form CI = .69, p = .02; Interest
Profiler Long Form CI = .40, p = .02.

National Center for O*NET Development

98

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE

Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) is a more direct way to visually examine whether the structure
of the IP Short Form fit with Holland’s (1997) circular model. Separate MDS analyses were
conducted on the IP Short Form and the Long Form. A two-dimensional solution fit the data well,
explaining 93% of the variation in the Long Form and 99% of the variation in the Short Form.
The two-dimensional coordinates are shown in Table 15. Figure 4 displays the results graphically
and shows that a circular RIASEC structure was evident for both measures. For the Long Form,
the Enterprising scale was found near the center of the plot, reflecting its stronger than expected
relation with the Realistic and Artistic scales; whereas the Short Form improved on this issue and
has the Enterprising scale more to the periphery. For both measures, the distance between the
Realistic scale and the Conventional scale was greater than would be expected given a circular
structure, a typical finding in the RIASEC structural literature (Rounds & Day, 1999).
Table 15. Two-Dimensional MDS Coordinate Values for the Interest Profiler Short Form
and Long Form

IP Short Form
IP Long Form
I

II

I

II

R
I

-1.20
-.69

.68
-.63

-.83
-.86

1.12
-.34

A

-.03

-.84

-.27

-.82

S

.84

-.42

-.26

-.53

E

.48

.22

.36

.22

C

.59

1.01

1.35

.35

Note. N = 1061. The Short Form and Long Form were scaled separately. Interest Profiler Short
Form: Kruskal STRESS = .03 and RSQ = .99; Interest Profiler Long Form: Kruskal STRESS =
.09 and RSQ = .93.R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C =
conventional.

National Center for O*NET Development

99

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE

Figure 4. Multi-dimensional Scaling Solutions for the IP Short Form (Left) and IP Long Form,
Computerized Version (right)

National Center for O*NET Development

100

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Circular Unidimensional Scaling (CUS) also allows for a direct visual examination of the
relations between interest types in a measure. Separate CUS analyses were conducted on the IP
Short Form and Long Form. The circular structure of the Short Form was supported by results
shown in Table 16. A circular model explained 86.48% of the variance in the Short Form, much
higher than the cut-off value of 60% which indicates a good model fit (Armstrong, Hubert, &
Rounds, 2003) and a major improvement in fit compared to 60.14% for the Long Form.
Table 16. Circular Unidimensional Scaling Coordinate Values for the RIASEC Scales of the
Interest Profiler Short Form and Long From
IP Short Form
IP Long Form

R
I

-.0934
-.0803

-.0909
.1027

-.0629
.0980

-.0859
-.0415

A

.0000

.1304

.1034

.0255

S

.0938

.0906

.0668

.0829

E

.1292

.0173

.0000

.1065

C

.1100

-.0700

-.0463

.0959

Note. N = 1061. The IP Short Form and Long Form were scaled separately. Interest Profiler
Short Form: VAF = 0.8648; Interest Profiler Long Form: VAF = 0.6014. R = realistic, I =
investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C = conventional.
Gender Differences. To assess the difference between males and females on each of the
RIASEC interest types, Cohen’s d-values were calculated as effect sizes for gender differences
within each interest type. A positive d-value indicates that males had higher scores on a certain
interest type, and a negative d-value indicates that females had a higher score. As shown in Table
17, on the IP Short Form males had higher scores for the Realistic and the Investigative scales (d
= .86 and d = .26, respectively), and females had higher scores for the Social (d = - .59) and the
Conventional scales (d = -.36). Gender differences for the Artistic and Enterprising scales were
minimal (d = .00, and d = -.07, respectively). The IP Short Form and the Long Form had similar
patterns of mean-level gender differences for RIASEC scales, with the only exception that the
Short Form had smaller gender differences for the Conventional scale (d = -.36) as compared to
the Long Form (d = -.53). The magnitude of these gender differences is similar to previous
meta-analytic results, with the exception that Artistic interests showed minimal gender
differences in meta-analytic comparisons (Su, Rounds, & Armstrong, 2009).

National Center for O*NET Development

101

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 17. Gender Difference Effect Sizes (d) for the Interest Profiler Short Form and Long Form
RIASEC Scales Compared to Su, Rounds, and Armstrong (2009) Meta-Analytic Review
R
IP Short
.86
IP Long
.93
Meta-Analytic Results .84

I

A

S

E

C

.26
.21
.26

.00
-.05
-.35

-.59
-.54
-.68

-.07
.06
.04

-.36
-.53
-.33

Note. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C = conventional.
Interest Profiler Short Form, Paper-and-Pencil Version
Rounds, Hoff, Chu, Lewis, and Gregory (2018) investigated the validity of the IP Short Form,
paper-and-pencil Version (IP Short Form, P & P). The IP Short Form, P & P comprises of the
same 60 items as the IP Short Form, web-based version. The P & P version is a practical tool for
people who may not have easy access to computers (e.g., students or incarcerated individuals).
Sample. A sample of incarcerated individuals (N = 421) was used as the primary dataset for
evaluating psychometric characteristics and self-scoring accuracy for the IP Short Form, P & P.
Table 18 shows demographic information for the sample. Participants were surveyed at a range
of correctional facilities located in the Eastern United States. The incarcerated individuals
sample was 69% male and 31% female, and 85% of the participants were between the ages of 23
to 50 (M age = 35.19; SD = 9.99). The breakdown of race and ethnicity was 56% White, 32%
Hispanic, 8% American Indian or Alaska Native, 15% African American, and 3% other.
A second sample consisting of 140 students was also used to evaluate self-scoring. Table 19
shows demographic information for the school sample after removing seven outliers older than
age 25. The sample was 55% male and 45% female and the majority of students (73%) were
16-18 years old when tested. The breakdown of race and ethnicity in the school sample was 52%
White, 35% Hispanic, 11% American Indian or Alaska Native, 10% African American, and 8%
other.

National Center for O*NET Development

102

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 18. Description of Incarcerated Sample
Characteristic
N
%
Gender
Male
288
68.57
Female
132
31.43
Age
19 to 22
22
5.25
23 to 30
112
26.73
31 to 40
159
37.95
41 to 50
84
20.05
51 to 60
38
9.07
61 to 70
4
0.72
> 70
1
0.24
Education
Less than High School Degree
122
29.33
High school degree or equivalent
186
44.71
Some college, but no degree
86
20.67
Associate's Degree
12
2.88
Bachelor's Degree
6
1.44
Graduate Degree
4
0.96
Ethnicity
White
234
55.58
Hispanic
135
32.07
American Indian or Alaska Native
35
8.31
Asian
3
0.71
African American
63
14.96
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Isl.
8
1.90
Employment
Full-time Employee
92
22.44
Part-time Employee
16
3.90
Not Employed currently
291
70.98
Retired
11
2.68
Note. Ethnicity percentages exceed 100% because participants could select more than one

National Center for O*NET Development

103

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 19. Description of School Sample
Characteristic
N
%
Gender
Male
74
55.40
Female
59
44.60
Age
15 or less
26
19.55
16 to 18
97
72.93
19 to 22
10
7.52
Grade
9th grade
34
24.29
10th grade
28
20.00
11th grade
26
18.57
12 grade
45
32.14
Ethnicity
White
69
0.52
Hispanic
46
0.35
American Indian or Alaska Native
14
0.11
Asian
8
0.06
African American
13
0.10
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Isl.
2
0.02
Employment (S)
Currently have a job
25
0.19
Previously had a job
21
0.16
Never had a job
85
0.64
Note. Ethnicity percentages exceed 100% because participants could select more than one
category.

National Center for O*NET Development

104

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Scoring. The IP Short Form, P & P is self-scored by participants. Each item asks participants
to check the box if they are interested in the activity. The participant then sums the number of
checked boxes for each RIASEC scale to report the three interest areas with the highest scores as
their interest profile.
A difference score (self-score – true score) was used to analyze the accuracy of self-scoring for
the IP Short Form, P & P. Across RIASEC scales, 97 - 99% of participants had a difference
score of 0, which means that they correctly calculated their scores. Among the 421 incarcerated
participants who took the IP Short Form, P & P, only 1-3 participants, depending on the RIASEC
scale, failed to record summed scores for a RIASEC scale. These results show that the
instrument is easy to score and self-scoring has high accuracy rates compared to other
well-known interest inventories and the Interest Profiler Long Form.
Convergent Validity. To assess the convergent validity of the IP Short Form, P & P,
participants’ scores from the measure were compared to the interest profiles of their last job and
career aspirations. A person’s interests were hypothesized to reflect his/her career aspiration.
Thus, convergent validity would be supported when people’s interest profiles relate strongly to
the interest profiles of their aspired career.
Cross-Classification analyses were conducted to assess the similarity between people’s primary
interest types and their career aspiration. Table 20 displays the results of the cross-classification
analysis on high-point codes from the IP Short Form, P & P with the career aspirations of
incarcerated individuals. The main diagonal of Table 20 shows the hit rate across RIASEC codes.
Overall, the hit rate was 137/334 = 41.02%, which compares similarly with the Self-Directed
Search hit rates with career aspirations (SDS; Holland, Fritzsche, & Powell, 1994, p. 29) and
meta-analytic hit rate estimates of 43.8% (Hanna & Rounds, 2019).

National Center for O*NET Development

105

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 20. Cross-Classification of the RIASEC High-Point Codes for the Interest
Profiler Short Form (P & P) and Career Aspirations for Incarcerated Sample
Career Aspiration
Interest

Count

Profiler
R
I

R

I

A

S

E

C

Total N

Total %

61
9

3
8

1
1

3
5

9
3

3
2

80
28

23.95
8.38

A

12

1

8

2

4

4

31

9.28

S

23

3

4

39

12

9

90

26.95

E

31

3

5

15

18

6

78

23.35

C

10

1

0

5

8

3

27

8.08

Total N
Total %

146
43.71

19
5.69

19
5.69

69
20.66

54
16.17

27
8.08

334
100.00

100.00

I
3.75
28.57
3.23
3.33
3.85
3.70

Row Percent
A
S
1.25
3.75
3.57
17.86
25.81
6.45
4.44
43.33
6.41
19.23
0.00
18.52

E
11.25
10.71
12.90
13.33
23.08
29.63

C
3.75
7.14
12.90
10.00
7.69
11.11

R
I
A
S
E
C

R
I
A
S
E
C

R
76.25
32.14
38.71
25.56
39.74
37.04

R
41.78
6.16
8.22
15.75
21.23
6.85

I
15.79
42.11
5.26
15.79
15.79
5.26

National Center for O*NET Development

Column
A
5.26
5.26
42.11
21.05
26.32
0.00

Percent
S
4.35
7.25
2.90
56.52
21.74
7.25

E
16.67
5.56
7.41
22.22
33.33
14.81

C
11.11
7.41
14.81
33.33
22.22
11.11

106

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Profile correlation reflects the degree of similarity between two sets of interest profiles, taking
scores on all six interest types into consideration. Profile correlation values range from -1.00 to
1.00, with values closer to +1.00 indicating greater similarity. Because interests are associated
with participants’ career plans, we expected IP Short Form, P & P scores to be more highly
related to their career aspiration compared to their last job. As expected, the profile correlation
between participants’ IP Short Form, P & P interest profiles and the interest profiles of their
career aspirations (r = .24) was higher than the profile correlation between their interest profiles
with their last job (r = .15).
Table 21. Profile Correlations of the Interest Profiler Short Form (P & P)
Last Job

Career Aspiration

Mean

0.15

0.24

SD

0.44

0.43

Note. Incarcerated: N = 332 (Career Aspirations), N = 326 (Last Job). Interest profiles for last
jobs, and career aspirations were based on O*NET occupational categories (coded from
self-reported responses).
Structural Validity. The structural validity of the IP Short Form, P & P was examined through
Randomization Tests, Multidimensional Scaling (MDS), and Circular Unidimensional Scaling
(CUS). Randomization tests were conducted to test whether the IP Short Form, P & P fit with the
hypothesized RIASEC order. The IP Short Form, P & P version had a CI of .61 (p = .02), which
was comparable to the IP Short Form Web-based version (CI = .68). Both versions of the IP
Short Form fit Holland’s model well comparing to the traditional benchmark (CI = .70; Rounds
& Tracey, 1996).
Table 22. RIASEC Scale Intercorrelations for the Interest Profiler Short Form (P & P) for
Incarcerated Sample
R

I

A

S

E

R
I

-0.31

--

A

0.32

0.46

--

S

0.26

0.45

0.49

--

E

0.29

0.38

0.42

0.48

--

C

0.33

0.32

0.29

0.46

0.50

C

--

Note. N = 421 (Incarcerated individuals). Randomization test: CI = 0.61 p= 0.02

National Center for O*NET Development

107

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) provides a visual display of relations among interest types and
tests whether the IP Short Form, P & P fit with the hypothesized circular RIASEC model. A
two-dimensional solution fit the data well, explaining 98% of the variation among the RIASEC
scales. The coordinates are shown in Table 23, and Figure 5 displays the scale values for
RIASEC interests graphically. A circular RIASEC structure was evident for the IP scales. As
shown in the figure, the distance between the Realistic scale and the Investigative and
Conventional scales was greater than would be expected given a circular structure. The distance
between Realistic and Conventional is a typical finding in the RIASEC structural literature
(Rounds & Day, 1999).
Table 23. Two-Dimensional MDS Coordinate Values for the Interest Profiler Short Form (P & P)
for Incarcerated Sample
I

II

R

-1.54

-0.02

I

-0.03

0.95

A

0.43

0.67

S

0.67

0.02

E

0.41

-0.55

C

0.06

-1.08

Note. N = 421, Stress = 0.05, RSQ = 0.98.

National Center for O*NET Development

108

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Figure 5. Multidimensional Scaling Solution for the Interest Profiler Short Form, P & P for
Incarcerated Sample.

Circular Unidimensional Scaling (CUS) examines whether the six interest types from the IP
Short Form, P & P relate to each other in the hypothesized order as points positioned on a circle.
The circular structure of the RIASEC scales for the IP Short Form, P & P was further supported
by the CUS results, as shown in Table 24. The circular model explained 90% of the variance in
the IP Short Form, P & P, much higher than the cut-off value of 60% that indicates a good model
fit (Armstrong, Hubert, & Rounds, 2003). These results indicated that the IP Short Form, P & P
version has a close fit to a circular RIASEC structure. Figure 6 displays the results graphically
and again shows that the distance between the realistic scale and the investigative and
conventional scales was greater than would expected given a circular structure.

National Center for O*NET Development

109

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 24. Circular Unidimensional Scaling Coordinate Values for the RIASEC Scales of the
Interest Profiler Short Form (P & P) for Incarcerated Sample
I

II

R

0.00

0.10

I

0.09

0.04

A

0.07

-0.07

S

0.01

-0.10

E

-0.05

-0.08

C

-0.09

-0.05

Note. N = 421, VAF = 0.90.
Figure 6. Circular Unidimensional Scaling Solution for the Interest Profiler Short Form (P & P)
for Incarcerated Sample.

R

.3

.3

.0

.0
C

.1

E

National Center for O*NET Development

I

.11
A
S

110

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Gender Differences. Standardized difference scores (d-values) among the RIASEC
for males and females are presented in Table 25. Positive values indicate stronger male
preferences and positive values indicate stronger female preferences. The d-values
illustrated that males had higher scores on Realistic scale (d = 0.70), while females had
higher scores on Social (d = -.35), Conventional (d = -.22), Investigative (d = -.16),
and Enterprising (d = -.15) scales. Gender differences on the Artistic scale were
minimal (d = .05). The magnitude of these gender differences is smaller compared to
previous meta-analytic estimates (Su, Rounds, & Armstrong, 2009).
Table 25. Gender Difference (d) by RIASEC Scale Score for Incarcerated Sample
R
I
A
S
E

C

d

-0.22

0.70

-0.16

0.05

-0.35

-0.15

Note. d represents the standardized difference scores between male and female
participants. Positive values indicate stronger male preferences; negative values
indicate stronger female preferences.
Validity of the Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP)
The Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) comprises of 30 items selected from the Interest Profiler
Short Form. The impetus for further shortening the Interest Profiler was to develop brief
RIASEC scales for use in mobile settings where it is ideal to have an interest measure that can be
completed rapidly and easily. Rounds, Wee, Ming, Cao, Song and Lewis (2016) describe the
development of the measure (see Chapter 4, Development) and provide validity evidence for the
Mini-IP.
Sample. To assess the comparability between the Mini-IP and the IP Short Form, a validation
sample consisting of 600 participants were recruited through Amazon’s Mechanical Turk
(https://www.mturk.com). Besides the two IP measures, participants also took a 20-item Big Five
personality measure (Mini-IPIP Scales; Donnellan et al., 2006). After data cleaning, the final
sample had 575 participants (298 males, 276 females). The age of the participants ranged from
18 years-old to 65 years-old (M = 35.66, SD = 11.38), and 95.8% of the sample was employed.
In terms of ethnicity, 77% of the sample referred to themselves as White, 9.4% were
African-American, 9% were Asian, and 7.3% were Hispanic or Latino. All demographic
information for the sample is presented in Table 26.

National Center for O*NET Development

111

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 26. Description of Amazon Mturk Validation Sample
Characteristic
n
%
Gender
Male
298
51.8
Female
276
48.0
Age
18 or less
1
0.2
19 to 22
40
7.0
23 to 30
198
34.4
31 to 40
165
28.7
41 to 50
92
17.0
51 to 60
57
9.9
61 to 65
22
3.8
Race
White
443
77.0
Asian
52
9.0
Black or African American
54
9.4
American Indian or Alaskan Native
5
0.9
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
2
0.3
Other
17
3.0
Ethnicity
Hispanic or Latino
42
7.3
Not Hispanic or Latino
532
92.5
Employment Status
Not employed (including students)
19
3.3
Employed
551
95.8
Missing
5
0.9
Note. N = 575. Column n's may not always sum up to the total N because of missing data

National Center for O*NET Development

112

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Convergent Validity. To assess the convergent validity of the Mini-Interest Profiler,
participants’ scores from the Mini-IP were compared to their scores from the IP Short Form, P &
P. Matching interest scales from the two measures were expected to show high correlations. As
shown in Table 27, the correlations for matching interests, which are positioned on the main
diagonal, ranged from .95 to .96. This provides strong support for the convergent validity of the
Mini-IP with the IP Short Form.
Table 27. Cross Correlations of the 30-Item Mini Interest Profiler and the 60-Item Interest
Profiler Short Form for the Validation Sample
30-Item Mini Interest Profiler
R

R
.95

I
.38

A
.11

S
.12

E
.25

C
.47

I

.29

.96

.28

.27

.21

.17

A

.09

.25

.96

.41

.27

.05

S

.12

.25

.41

.95

.41

.13

E
.23
.17
.24
.39
.95
C
.41
.14
.06
.12
.33
Note. N = 575. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social,
E = enterprising, C = conventional.

.34
.95

60-Ite
m
Interest
Profiler
Short
Form

To further assess the convergent validity of the Mini-IP, correlations between RIASEC scales of
the Mini-IP and a brief measure of Big Five personality traits were compared to past
meta-analytic correlations between interest and personality traits. As expected, Social and
Enterprising interests were significantly correlated with Extraversion (r = .28 and .34,
respectively), and Investigative and Artistic interests were correlated significantly with Openness
(r = .15 and .35, respectively). These correlations were very similar to those reported in past
meta-analyses (Barrick, Mount, & Gupta, 2003; Larson. Rottinghaus, & Borgen, 2002).
Furthermore, the personality-by-interest correlation matrix for the Mini-IP was very similar to
the correlation matrix for the IP Short Form, P & P (see Table 28), providing further support for
the convergent validity of Mini-IP.

National Center for O*NET Development

113

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Table 28. Personality Trait by RIASEC Scale Correlations for the 30-Item Mini Interest Profiler
and the 60-Item Interest Profiler Short Form for the Validation Sample
30-Item Mini Interest Profiler
R
I
A
S
E
*
Extraversion
-.02
.08
.07
.28
.34*
Agreeableness
-.04
.06
.21*
.40*
.08
Conscientiousness -.01
-.07
-.05
-.05
.10*
Neuroticism
-.04
-.02
.04
-.01
-.13*
Intellect
.06
.15*
.35*
.16*
.10*
60-Item Interest Profiler Short Form
R
I
A
S
E
Extraversion
.00
.10*
.10*
.28*
.32*
Agreeableness
-.04
.08
.22*
.38*
.08
Conscientiousness -.02
-.07
-.05
-.04
.09*
Neuroticism
-.03
-.00
.05
-.02
-.10*
Intellect
.07
.18*
.31*
.13*
.05
Note. N = 575. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S =
social, E = enterprising, C = conventional. * = p < .05.

National Center for O*NET Development

C
-.12*
-.01
.00
.06
-.05
C
-.11*
-.01
.03
.06
-.08

114

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Structural Validity. The structural validity of the Mini-IP was examined through
Multidimensional Scaling (MDS). MDS was conducted with both the Mini-IP and IP Short Form
to examine 1) whether interest types in the Mini-IP and the IP Short Form fit with the
hypothesized circular model, and 2) whether Mini-IP and IP Short Form would give similar
two-dimensional structure for the six interest types.
Two-dimension solutions fitted the validation data well. For the Mini-IP, the solution explained
99% of the variance; for the Short Form, the solution explained 99% of the variance. The
coordinates for the two-dimensional solution is presented in Table 29. Figure 7 graphically
displays the results. The circular structure was apparent for both measures, and each scale from
one of measures was closely positioned to the same scale from the other measure. These results
gave strong support for both the structural and convergent validity of the Mini-IP.
Table 29. MDS Coordinate Values
30-Item Mini-IP
-1.04
-0.28
0.07
-0.94
1.06
-0.19
0.91
0.32
0.08
0.74
C -1.09
0.35
I
II

60-Item Short-IP
-0.84
-0.56
0.13
-0.98
1.10
-0.05
0.78
0.34
-0.06
0.79
-1.11
I
II

National Center for O*NET Development

115

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Figure 7. Multidimensional Scaling of the RIASEC subscale correlation matrix for both the
30-Item Mini Interest Profiler and the 60-item Interest Profiler Short Form for the Validation
Sample, overlaid onto two-dimensional space.

Note. The Short Form and Mini-IP were scaled separately. Numbers next to the subscales
indicate the number of items in the RIASEC subscale. Interest Profiler Short Form: Kruskal
STRESS = .02 and RSQ = .99; 30-Item Mini Interest Profiler: Kruskal STRESS < .01 and
RSQ = .99. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S = social, E = enterprising, C =
conventional.

National Center for O*NET Development

116

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Gender Differences. Standardized difference scores (d-values) were calculated to illustrate
gender differences for RIASEC scales. A positive d-value indicates males have a higher
score on the interest scale, and a negative d-value indicates that females have higher scores.
For both the IP Short Form and Mini-IP, males had higher scores on the Realistic (d = .62 for
the Short-IP and .60 for the Mini-IP) and Investigative scale s(d = .18 and .19) while females
had higher scores on the Social (d = -.43 and -.41) and Conventional scales (d = -.12 and .00).
Gender differences were minimal for both Artistic and Enterprising scales. These gender
differences are smaller than those from meta-analytic estimates (Su, Rounds, and Armstrong,
2009).

Table 30.

Scale-level Reliability and Gender Balance for Validation Sample
30-Item Mini-IP
60-item Short-IP
Gender
Gender
Effect Size (d)
Effect Size (d)
Scale
Alpha
Alpha
R
0.60
0.81
0.62
0.88
I
0.19
0.80
0.18
0.90
A
-0.34
0.81
-0.35
0.90
S
-0.41
0.79
-0.43
0.89
E
-0.03
0.74
-0.08
0.85
C
0.00
0.79
-0.12
0.90
Note. N = 575. R = realistic, I = investigative, A = artistic, S= Social, E =enterprising, C
= conventional.

Summary
In summary, the validity of the Interest Profiler has been evaluated in multiple ways. Drawing
from the initial 180 items, shorter forms of the Interest Profiler have been developed, including
the 60-item Interest Profiler Short Form (Computer-Administered and Paper-and-Pencil) and the
30-item Mini Interest Profiler. All forms of the IP fit Holland’s (1997) circular structure of
RIASEC interests and show expected convergent and discriminant relations with RIASEC scales
from other interest inventories. For Paper-and-Pencil versions of the IP, test takers were able to
accurately conduct self-scoring.

National Center for O*NET Development

117

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
References
Armstrong, P. I., Allison, W., & Rounds, J. (2008). Development and initial validation of brief
public domain RIASEC marker scales. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 73(2), 287-299.
Armstrong, P. I., Hubert, L., & Rounds, J. (2003). Circular unidimensional scaling: A new look
at group differences in interest structure. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 50(3), 297.
Barrick, M. R., Mount, M. K., & Gupta, R. (2003). Meta‐analysis of the relationship between the
five‐factor model of personality and Holland's occupational types. Personnel
psychology, 56(1), 45-74.
Brown, S.D. & Gore, P.G. (1994). An evaluation of interest congruence indices: distribution
characteristics and measurement properties. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 45,
310-327.
Cicchetti, D., Bronen, R., Spencer, S., Haut, S., Berg, A., Oliver, P., & Tyrer, P. (2006). Rating
scales, scales of measurement, issues of reliability: Resolving some critical issues for
clinicians and researchers. The Journal of nervous and mental disease, 194(8), 557-564.
Donnellan, M. B., Oswald, F. L., Baird, B. M., & Lucas, R. E. (2006). The mini-IPIP scales:
tiny-yet-effective measures of the Big Five factors of personality. Psychological
assessment, 18(2), 192.
Fleiss, J. L., Levin, B., & Paik, M. C. (2003). Statistical methods for rates and proportions.
Wiley-Interscience. Hoboken, NJ.
Hanna, A. V. (2018) How accurate are interest inventories? A quantitative review of career
choice hit rates. (Unpublished master thesis). University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
Champaign, IL.
Holland, J. L. (1997). Making vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and work
environments (3rd ed.). Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources, Inc.
Holland, J. L., Fritzsche, B. A., & Powell, A. B. (1994). The Self-Directed Search technical
manual. Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources.
Iachan, R. (1984a). A family of differentiation indices. Psychometrika, 49, 217-222.
Iachan, R. (1984b). A measure of agreement for use with Holland’s classification system.
Journal of Vocational Behavior, 24, 133-141.
Jackson, D. N. (1977). Manual for the Jackson Vocational Interest Survey. Port Huron, MI:
Research Psychologists Press.

National Center for O*NET Development

118

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Larson, L. M., Rottinghaus, P. J., & Borgen, F. H. (2002). Meta-analyses of Big Six interests and
Big Five personality factors. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 61(2), 217-239.
Phan, W. M. J., Amrhein, R., Rounds, J., & Lewis, P. (2019). Contextualizing Interest Scales
With Emojis: Implications for Measurement and Validity. Journal of Career
Assessment, 27(1), 114-133.
Phan, W. M. J., & Rounds, J. (2018). Examining the duality of Holland's RIASEC types:
Implications for measurement and congruence. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 106,
22-36.
Prediger, D. J. (1982). Dimensions underlying Holland's hexagon: Missing link between interests
and occupations? Journal of Vocational Behavior, 21, 259-287
Rounds, J., & Day, S. X (1999). Describing, evaluating, and creating vocational interest
structures. In M. L. Savickas & A. R. Spokane (Eds.), Vocational interests: Their
meaning, measurement and use in counseling (pp. 103-133). Palo Alto, CA:
Davies-Black.
Rounds, J., & Tracey, T. J. (1996). Cross-cultural structural equivalence of RIASEC models and
measures. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 43, 310-329.
Rounds, J., Hoff, K., Chu, C., Lewis, P., & Gregory, C. (2018). O*NET® Interest Profiler Short
Form Paper-and-Pencil Version: Evaluation of Self-Scoring and Psychometric
Characteristics. Raleigh, NC: National Center for O*NET Development. Retrieved from:
https://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_PP.html
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S.E., Smith, T.J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Computerized Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. Raleigh, NC:
National Center for O*NET Development. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/CIP_RVC.html
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET Interest Profiler Short form
psychometric characteristics: Summary. Raleigh, NC: National Center for O*NET
Development. Retrieved from:
http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/IPSF_Psychometric.html
Rounds, J., & Tracey, T. J. (1993). Prediger's dimensional representation of Holland's RIASEC
circumplex. Journal of Applied Psychology, 78(6), 875.
Rounds, J., Walker, C. R., Day, S. X, Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. Raleigh, NC: National Center for
O*NET Development. Retrieved From: http://www.onetcenter.org/dl_files/IP_RVS.pdf

National Center for O*NET Development

119

CHAPTER 6: VALIDITY EVIDENCE
Russell, M. (2007). Assessing vocational interests: Convergence and divergence of inventories
and informants. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of Illinois at Urbana–
Champaign.
Su, R., Rounds, J., & Armstrong, P. I. (2009). Men and things, women and people: A
meta-analysis of sex differences in interests. Psychological Bulletin, 135, 859- 884.
Tracey, T. J., & Rounds, J. B. (1993). Evaluating Holland's and Gati's vocational-interest models:
A structural meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 113(2), 229.
Wall, J. E., & Baker, H. E. (1997). The Interest-Finder: Evidence of validity. Journal of Career
Assessment, 5, 255-273.
Wall, J. L., Wise, L. L., & Baker, H. E. (1996). Development of the Interest-Finder: A new
RIASEC-based interest inventory. Measurement and Evaluation in Counseling and
Development.
Wee, Colin, J.M. (2016) Deciphering the general factor in interest measures: response style or
attitude. (Unpublished master thesis). University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
Champaign, IL.

National Center for O*NET Development

120

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET

CHAPTER 7
Interest Profiler Linkage to O*NET Occupations
Bo Zhang
Texas A&M University
Tianjun Sun
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
In this chapter, we focus on the development of Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) and how
clients’ interest assessment profiles are linked to O*NET-SOC occupational profiles by means of
the Interest Profiler. Specifically, the proceeding sections cover the following content:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Three different methods to develop OIPs
Development of the initial O*NET OIPs
Reliability and validity evidence for the initial O*NET OIPs
Updates of the O*NET OIPs
A very brief introduction to different versions of the Interest Profiler
A brief overview of the O*NET-SOC occupations
How O*NET links person-profiles to OIPs

Introduction
We first discuss the development of Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs), including reliability,
validity, and updates. Then, we elaborate on the methodology of linking individuals’ RIASEC
profiles to OIPs and how recommendations of occupations are generated. Through this chapter,
we hope to help practitioners and researchers gain a deeper understanding of the O*NET system.
The Occupational Information Network (O*NET) is a comprehensive system for the collection,
organization, description, and dissemination of data on attributes of occupations. O*NET
provides information at different levels of detail, thus enabling both human resources
professionals, career counselors, and job seekers to make use of the information for a variety of
purposes. For example, human resources professionals can refine recruitment and training goals,
develop appropriate job descriptions, and align organizational development with workplace
needs using information provided by O*NET. Job seekers can use O*NET to explore their
vocational interests, work values, and identify occupations that fit their interests and values, thus
making effective career decisions.
O*NET data are organized around the Content Model, which is a skills-based structure for
specifying information about the world of work in the O*NET database (Peterson, Mumford,
Borman, Jeanneret, & Fleishman, 1999). As an important part of the Content Model,
Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) were developed based on Holland’s model of vocational

National Center for O*NET Development

121

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
interests and work environments. Specifically, Holland (1985, 1997) proposed six types of
interests and six types of work environments: Realistic (R), Artistic (A), Social (S), Enterprising
(E), and Conventional (C), collectively referred to as RIASEC. Holland’s theory is based on the
idea that we can describe individuals’ vocational interests and characteristics of a particular job
in a unified framework. OIPs are a collection of different occupations’ interest scores on each
RIASEC category. Professionals and researchers can use this information to quantify the degree
of fit between an individual’s interests and a particular job. Person-occupation interest fit has
been found to be positively related to job performance (Nye, Su, Rounds, & Drasgow, 2012,
2017) and career success (Rounds & Su, 2014).
To make full use of the O*NET system, RIASEC scores are needed for both persons and
occupations. On the person side, O*NET has developed three forms of the Interest Profiler
(Rounds, Mazzeo et al.,1999; Rounds, Wee, Cao, Song, & Lewis, 2016; Rounds, Su, Lewis, &
Rivkin, 2010; Rounds, Walker et al., 1999) to assess individuals’ standing on these six types of
vocational interests. On the occupation side, OIPs were developed in the late 1990s (Rounds,
Smith et al., 1999) and updated in 2008 (Rounds, Armstrong, Liao, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2008) and
2013 (Rounds, Su, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2013). The original OIPs were based on the Occupational
Employment Statistics (OES) classification while the updated OIPs switched to the new Standard
Occupational Classification (SOC) system in version 3.0 of the database. In addition, some new
and emerging occupations were identified and incorporated into the updated OIPs.
Development of O*NET OIPs
Methods of Developing OIPs
There have been at least three methods proposed to develop RIASEC profiles for occupations,
including: 1) incumbent, 2) empirical, and 3) judgement (Rounds, Smith et al., 1999). The
incumbent method is based on the idea that people make the environment (Holland, 1997). It
involves administering a RIASEC measure to a representative sample of workers from a specific
occupation and averaging across workers for each RIASEC type. These average scores are
treated as the RIASEC scores for that occupation. Usually, a three-letter code corresponding to
the top three RIASEC scores is assigned to each occupation. However, the incumbent method is
limited in that a representative employed sample is needed for each of the thousand occupations,
making it an expensive and time-consuming method.
To circumvent this limitation, Gottfredson and Holland (1989; 1996) developed an empirical
method to facilitate RIASEC classifications of all U.S occupations. The empirical method
requires a set of occupations that have been assigned a single high-point RIASEC code, which is
referred to as a developmental sample of occupations. Discrimination analyses are then
performed on these occupations to derive a set of classification equations using the predictor
variables common to all occupations. These equations are applied to the remaining non-classified
occupations to estimate the probability that each occupation belongs to each of RIASEC
categories. Finally, each occupation is assigned a three-letter code. The first code corresponds to
the RIASEC category with the highest classification probability; the second code corresponds to
the category with the second-highest classification probability; and the third code is the category

National Center for O*NET Development

122

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
with the third-highest score. Although this method can create a comprehensive classification
without the need for representative incumbents, the ordering of RIASEC beyond the first code
may not be reliable because some occupations are only representative of one RIASEC
environment.
The judgement method uses direct ratings of occupations by trained raters. Specifically, raters
are first presented with information for each occupation, including occupational titles, job
descriptions, core tasks, knowledge, and generalized work activities. After intensive training to
process the information, raters judge the degree to which each RIASEC category applies to each
occupation. The mean ratings across raters and RIASEC categories are used as RIASEC scores
for each occupation. Usually, cutoffs are set to the OIPs to get high-point codes for each
occupation. As the accuracy of the OIPs depends on the accuracy of ratings, inter-rater
agreement is particularly important. Researchers have relied on Goodman-Kruskal’s Gamma
(Goodman & Kruskal, 1979) to judge the degree of inter-rater agreement. Higher
Goodman-Kruskal’s Gamma means higher degree of agreement. As detailed below, the
judgement method performed better than the empirical method and has been used to develop
OIPs for O*NET occupations (Rounds, Smith et al., 1999).
Development of the Initial O*NET OIPs
The initial OIPs for O*NET were developed in the late 1990s (Rounds, Smith et al., 1999).
Originally, the development team used both empirical and the judgement methods to estimate the
OIP for 1,172 occupations.
Two variants of the empirical method were used. The main difference between the two variants
was the rating target. Before the O*NET system, occupations were organized using the
Dictionary of Occupation Titles (DOT). O*NET later replaced the DOT and reorganized
occupations into 1,172 Occupation Units (OU). The first variant (DOT-to-OU) started with the
RIASEC coding of 12,748 DOT occupations. The DOT occupations were linked to their
respective OU and average RIASEC profiles were computed for each OU. The second variant
(OU) started by directly developing numerical RIASEC profiles for each OU. Specifically, three
trained raters independently judged which one of the six RIASEC categories was most
characteristic of a subset of occupations. The subset of occupations was intended as the
developmental sample from which classification functions could be developed. Inter-rater
agreement was high for both variants of the empirical method. The classification function was
then applied to the remaining occupations to obtain the probability of membership in a particular
RIASEC category for each occupation. Therefore, each occupation would have six probabilities.
These probabilities were used to obtain RIASEC high-point codes. The final product was two
profiles for each occupation: 1) a specific OIP containing probabilities for each RIASEC
category (ranging from zero to one) and 2) an ordered RIASEC high-point code profile.
For the judgement method, three trained raters rated the entire set of 1,172 occupational units.
Mean Goodman-Kruskal’s Gamma was .81, indicating a high degree of agreement across raters.
Therefore, the mean ratings across raters were used as the occupational profiles. In addition to
the numerical profile, high-point codes were assigned to each occupation in a way analogous to

National Center for O*NET Development

123

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
the previous method. To facilitate comparisons with the empirical method, the mean ratings were
converted into proportions so that the numerical value of each element of an OIP ranges from
zero to one as well.
Reliability and Validity of the Initial OIPs
Table 1 presents the probabilities/mean rating proportions of each RIASEC category for the three
methods. It can be observed from Table 1 that the values obtained with the judgement method
were least extreme. For example, the mean of the highest probability of each RIASEC category
obtained with both empirical methods were nearly .95 and the mean for the remaining five
categories was essentially zero. In comparison, the mean rating proportions for the judgment of
the first-position category was .31 and the mean profile proportions of the other five categories
were much more evenly distributed. None of the mean proportions for remaining categories
approached zero. If we take a look at the whole distribution, we can see that 85% of the
first-position probabilities were greater than .80 and 85% of the rating proportions of the first
position ranged from .25 to .40. These results suggest that the judgement method provides more
reliable and valid profiles. OIPs obtained from this method hold promise for counseling and
research purposes.
Table 1. Means and standard deviations of probabilities (or rated proportions) for
Holland High-Point Codes by different methods

First

DOT-to-OU
M
SD
0.939
0.137

M
0.947

SD
0.117

Judgement
M
SD
0.310
0.053

Second

0.055

0.123

0.044

0.098

0.200

0.027

Third

0.005

0.030

0.007

0.025

0.157

0.025

Fourth

0.001

0.009

0.002

0.009

0.131

0.017

Fifth

0.000

0.003

0.000

0.002

0.108

0.015

Code

OU

Sixth
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.093
0.011
Note. DOT-to-OU stands for the Dictionary of Occupational Titles to Occupational Units
empirical method; OU stands for the Occupational Units empirical method; the Judgement used
direct ratings.
The development team also examined the classification consistency between methods using
Cohen’s kappa (Cohen, 1960). Kappa above .70 is considered acceptable. It was found that one
variant of the empirical method had acceptable agreement with the judgement method (Kappa =
.72), while the other method produced a much different ordering of the RIASEC categories.
Additionally, the development team also assessed the external validity of different methods (see
Table 2). Specifically, researchers examined the degree of agreement between the profiles
obtained with the above methods with two existing sets of profiles using the Iachan Agreement
National Center for O*NET Development

124

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
Index (Iachan, 1984). Larger values of the Iachan index indicating a higher degree of
correspondence between the two sets of profiles. The two existing profiles were the Office of
Employment Statistics (OES) Holland-coded profiles (Gottfredson & Holland, 1996) and the
Strong Interest Inventory profiles (Harmon, Hansen, Borgen, & Hammer, 1994). As can be seen
from Table 2, OIPs obtained from the judgement method showed stronger convergence with the
two existing profiles than those obtained from the empirical methods.
Table 2. Comparison Among Methods for RIASEC Coding of Occupational Units using
Iachan Agreement Index
Methods

OES

Strong

DOT-to-OU

M
18.530

SD
8.180

M
18.260

SD
8.240

Empirical OU

20.750

7.230

19.860

7.700

Judgement OU

23.280

4.550

23.110

4.510

23.260

3.980

OES

Note. Iachan agreement index varies from 0 to 28. OES scores came from Gottfredson
and Holland’s (1996, pp. 632-649) RIASEC coding of occupational interests for the
Office of Employment Statistics. Strong refers to the RIASEC classification of
occupations based on the General Occupational Theme scores from the Strong Interest
Inventory (Harmon et al., 1994, pp. 377-383).
Several studies have reported convergent validity evidence for the O*NET OIPs. Eggerth,
Bowles, Tunick, and Andrew (2005) compared the RIASEC code classifications from the
O*NET to the Strong Interest Inventory (SII) RIASEC codes and the Dictionary of Holland
Occupational Codes (DHOC; Gottfredson & Holland, 1996) using six different methods. The
levels of agreement between the O*NET, SII, and DHOC were similar to agreements reported by
Rounds, Smith et al. (1999). For example, Rounds, Smith et al. (1999) found a first letter
agreement rate of 83.3% between the O*NET and the DHOC compared with the 78.6% rate
found by Eggerth et al. (2005). Dik, Hu, and Hansen (2007) used a novel approach to compar the
validity of SII, O*NET, and DHOC taxonomies for assigning Holland RIASEC codes to work
environments. They compared not only mean congruence scores but also congruence relations
with job satisfaction. The SII RIASEC codes were associated with stronger
congruence-satisfaction relations than was the O*NET codes, which in turn was associated with
stronger congruence-satisfaction relations than the DHOC. Dik et al. results are not surprising
since the measure of interests used was the SII and congruence was calculated using high-point
codes. RIASEC high-point codes were developed by Holland for self-scoring purposes. In
comparison, the O*NET computer-aided scoring does not use high-point codes to links interest
scores to occupations. Instead, congruence is assessed with a correlation coefficient using all six
RIASEC scores from the Interest Profiler and OIPs.

National Center for O*NET Development

125

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
Prediger and Swaney (2004) used the OIPs (Rounds, Smith et al., 1999) to revise the ACT
World-of-Work Map (WWM). This map is how the ACT Interest Inventory links RIASEC
interests to occupations and career options. The WWM is based on Holland’s hexagon with two
dimensions underlying the circular arrangement of RIASEC types—working with data versus
ideas (D/I) and working with things versus people (T/P). In Prediger and Swaney’s (2004)
revision of the WWM, they used three datasets involving ratings of occupations: OIPs, job
analysis data for 1,573 occupations in the USDL’s Dictionary of Occupational Titles, and mean
RIASEC interest scores for occupations from a variety of vocational interest inventories.
Correlations among the WWM task dimensions showed convergence among the databases: For
the D/I dimension, correlations with the OIP database were as follows: OIP ratings and job
analysis data (.78 for 528 occupations), OIP ratings and employee’s interests (.78 for 640
occupations and career groups). For the T/P dimension, correlations were as follows: OIP ratings
and job analysis data (.81) and OIP ratings and employee’s interests (.77). As reported by
Prediger and Swaney (2004) these correlations are “unusually high for scores based on diverse
measurement procedures” (p. 455). These results provide strong support for the validity of the
OIPs.
Structural validity is another important criterion for examining the validity of different methods.
The Holland model assumes that the distance between the RIASEC categories can be represented
by a hexagonal structure. Researchers used multiple statistical methods to examine structural
validity, including multidimensional scaling, randomization tests for circular structure, circular
scaling, and K-means clustering. All four methods suggest that OIPs obtained from the
judgement method were consistent with the geometric structure of the RIASEC model, thus
providing strong support for the structural validity of this classification. OIPs obtained from the
empirical methods did not show consistency with Holland’s theoretical model.
Updates of the OIPs
Since the development of the initial OIPs, there have been several changes made to the database
structure and content. For example, the initial classification system of occupations based on the
OES classification was converted to the new Standard Occupational Classification (SOC)
system. Although most of occupations in the OES system could be linked to the SOC system via
a crosswalk process, some new occupations also emerged that are not included in the OES.
These new occupations required new RIASEC ratings. In addition, data on occupations from the
initial Analyst Database had been replaced with data from incumbents. These changes required
updating the initial OIPs.
In 2008, the O*NET development team updated the initial OIPs based on new data available in
the O*NET system using the same judgement method (Rounds et al., 2008). Specifically, two
groups of trained raters, three per group, made judgements on 459 and 450 occupations,
respectively. They rated the appropriateness of each Holland category for each occupation based
on O*NET data for the occupation. Raters displayed a high degree of agreement with each other
(mean Gamma = .76). Therefore, the mean ratings across raters was applied to occupations for
each of RIASEC category. Several geometric models were fit to the OIPs and the overall pattern
was in line with the RIASEC model, thus supporting the validity of these judgements. High-point

National Center for O*NET Development

126

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
codes were assigned to each occupation following the same procedure as used in Rounds, Smith
et al. (1999).
In 2013, another update was made to the second generation of OIPs (Rounds et al., 2013). This
update aimed to populate OIP information for 83 new O*NET-SOC occupations identified after
Rounds et al. (2008). The same procedure was used as before to obtain OIPs for the new
occupations. Raters again reached high degree of agreement with each other (mean Gamma =
.86). The same procedure as used in Rounds, Smith et al. (1999) was applied to obtain high-point
codes for each occupation.
In sum, expert ratings provide reliable and valid information about OIPs, which serve as an
important link between the O*NET system and vocational interest assessment. The O*NET team
also updates OIP information to keep up with new and emerging occupations.
Applications of OIPs in Research Studies and Practice
As discussed, the OIPs have been used to update and refine the ACT World-of-Work Map
(Prediger & Swaney, 2004). The most frequent use of the OIPs, however, has been in
quantifying occupations and work environments to test and evaluate theories of
person-environment fit. Nye, Prasada, Bradburn, and Elizondo (2018) demonstrated the potential
benefits of operationalizing interest congruence using polynomial regression and OIPs. Their
study used OIPs to represent work and academic environments to evaluate interest congruence in
the prediction of work satisfaction and academic course performance. Similarly, OIPs have been
used in studies to RIASEC-code occupations in the study of person-environment fit (e.g., Wille,
Tracey, Feys, & De Fruyt, 2014) and in studies investigating the structural fit of Holland's
RIASEC model (Deng, Armstrong, & Rounds, 2007). Convergence of RIASEC codes across
methods have also supported the validity of the OIPs. For example, Neukrug, Sparkman, and
Moe (2017) assessed members of the National Organization for Human Services (NOHS) with
the IP-short form and compared the high-point RIASEC codes with O*NET OIPs. They reported
very similar codes across a variety of human service occupations.
Linking Interest Profiler Results to O*NET Occupations
The O*NET® Career Exploration Tools are a set of assessment instruments that are designed to
help clients learn work-related information about themselves and facilitate career search
activities. Career seekers can use these tools to identify occupations that match their interests,
values, abilities. In the process of self-assessment, clients are provided with O*NET-SOC
occupational profiles that are linked to their personal assessment results. In the following
sections, we describe how clients’ vocational interest profiles are linked to O*NET-SOC OIPs
with the O*NET Interest Profiler.
Interest Profiler
The O*NET Interest Profiler is available in a variety of forms (Long, Short, Mini) and versions
(Paper-and-Pencil, Web-based). All Interest Profiler forms have been shown to have good

National Center for O*NET Development

127

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
psychometric properties and can be used to generate valid RIASEC profiles (Rounds et al., 2010;
Rounds et al., 2016). More details about the development and psychometric properties of the
Interest Profiler can be found in Chapters 4 (development), 5 (reliability), and 6 (validity).
O*NET-SOC Occupations
O*NET-SOC occupations have occupational profiles obtained using the procedure described
above. To facilitate career exploration, O*NET-SOC occupations are divided into five Job Zones
based on the amount of education, training, and/or experience each occupation requires. Job
Zones are ordered according to increasing levels of education, training, and/or experience. For
example, Job Zone 1 consists of jobs that have little requirement of preparation, while Job Zone
5 requires the most education, training, and/or experience (National Center for O*NET
Development, 2008).
Linking Person Profiles to Occupation Profiles
After an individual completes the Interest Profiler and is presented with a personal RIASEC
profile, the RIASEC profile is then linked to Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs). The
comparison between the two types of profiles is based on the shape or pattern of the whole
profiles instead of the absolute level of each score. The ultimate goal is to direct a client to
occupations that have the same high and low interests (Gregory & Lewis, 2016).
O*NET system uses Pearson correlations to quantify the degree of similarity/congruence
between two profiles. The formula is as follows:
N

rpo =

i =1

( Pi − P)(Oi − O)
N P O

Where Pi stand for a person’s score on the ith RIASEC category P stands for a person’s average
score across the RIASEC categories. Similarly, Oi stands for an occupation’s score on the ith
RIASEC category and O is the average score across the six categories for that occupation. P
and O are the standard deviation of person profile and occupation profile, respectively. N equals
6 for RIASEC profiles. This index can range from -1.0 to 1.0. A correlation of 1.0 means that the
rank order of a client’s profile is identical with the rank order of an occupation’s interest profile,
whereas a correlation of -1.0 indicates that the two profiles have exactly opposite shapes.

National Center for O*NET Development

128

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
Once an individual’s profile is input into the system, the system will compute a similarity index
for each O*NET-SOC occupation and make recommendations based on these indices. The
scoring program will then apply the following decision rules to generate results that appear on
the client’s report. Below, we describe the latest rules that are implemented in the system
(Gregory & Lewis, 2016).
1. Occupations are presented by Job Zone.
2. O*NET-SOC occupations for which the client’s O*NET-SOC occupation profile
correlation is notably high are identified as “very strong” matches.
3. The “very strong” match cutoff denotes the value for which the statistical significance of
the correlation is p < .05 as derived from a one-tailed significance test. The “strong”
match cutoff represents the value for which the statistical significance of the correlation
is p < .10, as derived from a one-tailed significance test.
4. The goal of the scoring program is to list a total of 10 “very strong” or “strong”
occupations displayed per Job Zone. If there are not 10 “very strong” or “strong” matches
to the client’s interest profile available, the scoring program displays the occupations
with the next highest available correlations that are not negative. There are no upper
limits on the number of O*NET-SOC occupations that may be suggested within a Job
Zone.
5. Occupations that are “very strong” matches are labeled as “Best Fit” within the IP Short
Form and Mini-IP. “Strong” matches are labeled as “Great Fit.” Occupations with
correlations greater than or equal to .000 and less than .608 are labeled as “Good Fit.”
Results are sorted by fit category and presented alphabetically within each category.
6. There may be some instances where fewer than 10 occupations are displayed per Job
Zone, as only a small number of occupations may be linked to the client’s interests. If
fewer than 7 occupations are presented per Job Zone, the following language is displayed
on the score report:
“Within this Job Zone, a small number of careers match your interest profile. Click on a
different Job Zone above to see more careers linked to your interest profile.”
7. Additionally, there may be occasions where no occupations are linked to a client’s
interest profile within a Job Zone. If this occurs, the following language is displayed on
the score report:
“Within this Job Zone, there are no careers that match your interest profile. Click on a
different Job Zone above to see careers linked to your interest profile.”

National Center for O*NET Development

129

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
8. In the event that a client responds “strongly dislike” to all items on the Interest Profiler,
his profile is likely invalid. The client is instructed to review his responses or to re-take
the tool. If this occurs, the following language is displayed on the score report:
“You answered "strongly dislike" to all questions. Your results may not reflect your
interests. Please consider retaking the Interest Profiler at a different time.”
9. Clients who would like to explore additional careers beyond those identified by their
interest profile are provided with a “Find More Careers” option. This option allows the
client to see a list of careers related to a single interest area of choice. Occupations are
linked to each individual interest area based on their interest high-point codes.
These rules ensure that clients will receive appropriate and meaningful occupation
recommendations based on their vocational interest profile.
Summary
In this chapter, we discussed the development of occupational interest profiles for occupations
included in the O*NET system by reviewing different methods that have been used for
developing OIPs, the development of the initial OIPs and their reliability and validity, and
updates to the initial OIPs. We also discussed how clients’ vocational interest profiles are linked
to O*NET OIPs to facilitate career exploration and decision-making in applied settings. The
development of OIPs for the Interest Profiler lays the foundation for a flexible, dynamic career
exploration system that corresponds to the rapidly changing world of work.

National Center for O*NET Development

130

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
References
Cohen, J. (1960). A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. Educational Psychological
Measurement. 20(1), 37-46.
Deng, C.-P., Armstrong, P. I., & Rounds, J. (2007). The fit of Holland's RIASEC model to US
occupations. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 71 (1), 1-22
Dik, B. J., Hu, R. S. C., & Hansen, J. C. (2007). An empirical test of the Modified C Index and
SII, O*NET, and DHOC occupational code classifications. Journal of Career
Assessment, 15(3), 279–300.
Eggerth, D. E., Bowles, S. M., Tunick, R. H., & Andrew, M. E. (2005). Convergent validity of
O*NET Holland code classification. Journal of Career Assessment, 13(2), 150–168.
Goodman, L.A., Kruskal, W.H. (1979) Measures of Association for Cross Classifications. In: Measures of
Association for Cross Classifications. Springer Series in Statistics. Springer, New York, NY.

Gottfredson, G. D., & Holland, J. L. (1989). Dictionary of Holland occupational codes (2nd ed.).
Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources.
Gottfredson, G. D., & Holland, J. L. (1996). Dictionary of Holland occupational codes (3rd ed.).
Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources.
Gregory, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Linking client assessment profiles to O* NET® occupational
profiles within the O* NET Interest Profiler Short Form and Mini Interest Profiler
(Mini-IP). U.S. Department of Labor National O*NET Resource Center.
Harmon, L. W., Hansen, J. C., Borgen, F. H., & Hammer, A. L. (1994). Strong Interest Inventory
applications and technical guide. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Holland, J. L. (1985). Making of vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and
work environments (2nd ed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Holland, J. L. (1997). Making of vocational choices: A theory of vocational personalities and
work environments (3rd ed.). Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Resources, Inc.
Iachan, R. (1984). A measure of agreement for use with the Holland classification system.
Journal of Vocational Behavior, 24(2), 133-141.
National Center for O*NET Development (2008). Procedures for O*NET Job Zone Assignment.
Neukrug, E., Sparkman, N., & Moe, J. (2017). The Holland code of members of the national
organization for human services: A preliminary study of human services professionals.
Journal of Employment Counseling, 54(4), 146-155.

National Center for O*NET Development

131

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET
Nye, C. D., Prasada, J., Bradburn, J., & Elizondo, F. (2018). Improving the operationalization of
interest congruence using polynomial regression. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 104,
154–169.
Nye, C. D., Su, R., Rounds, J., & Drasgow, F. (2012). Vocational interests and performance: A
quantitative summary of over 60 years of research. Perspectives on Psychological
Science, 7(4), 384-403.
Nye, C. D., Su, R., Rounds, J., & Drasgow, F. (2017). Interest congruence and performance:
Revisiting recent meta-analytic findings. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 98, 138-151.
Peterson, N., Mumford, M., Borman, W., Jeanneret, P., & Fleishman, E. (1999). An occupational
information system for the 21st century: The development of O*NET. Washington, DC:
American Psychological Association.
Prediger, D. J., & Swaney, K. B. (2004). Work task dimensions underlying the world of work:
Research results for diverse occupational databases. Journal of Career Assessment, 12(4),
440–459.
Rounds, J., Armstrong, P. I., Liao, H. Y., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2008). Second generation
occupational interest profiles for the O*NET system: Summary. The National Center for
O*NET Development.
Rounds, J., Mazzeo, S. E., Smith, T. J., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
computerized interest profiler: Reliability, validity, and comparability. Raleigh, NC:
National Center For O*NET Development.
Rounds, J., Ming, C. W. J., Cao, M., Song, C., & Lewis, P. (2016). Development of an O*NET®
Mini Interest Profiler (Mini-IP) for mobile devices: Psychometric characteristics.
Raleigh, NC: Department of Labor O*NET Resource Center.
Rounds, J., Smith, T., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of Occupational
Interest Profiles (OIPs) for the O*NET. Raleigh, NC: National Center for O*NET
Development. http://www.onetcenter.org/reports/OIP.html
Rounds, J., & Su, R. (2014). The nature and power of interests. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 23(2), 98-103.
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). O*NET interest profiler short form
psychometric characteristics: Summary. Raleigh, NC: National Center for O*NET
Development.
Rounds, J., Su, R., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2013). Occupational interest profiles for new and
emerging occupations in the O*NET system: Summary. Raleigh, NC: National Center for
O*NET Development.

National Center for O*NET Development

132

CHAPTER 7: LINK TO O*NET

Rounds, J., Walker, C. M., Day, S. X., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). O*NET
Interest Profiler: Reliability, validity, and self-scoring. Raleigh, NC: National Center for
O*NET Development.
Wille, B., Tracey, T. J. G., Feys, M., & De Fruyt, F. (2014). A longitudinal and multi-method
examination of interest–occupation congruence within and across time. Journal of
Vocational Behavior, 84(1), 59-73.

National Center for O*NET Development

133

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS
CHAPTER 8
International Forms and Applications of the Interest Profiler
Alexis Hanna
University of Nevada, Reno
This chapter describes considerations for international interest assessment and cross-cultural
applications of the O*NET Interest Profiler. Specifically, this chapter integrates discussion of:
• International access to the Occupational Information Network
• Cross-cultural interest assessments
• English and Spanish language versions of the Interest Profiler
• Potential applications of the Interest Profiler in facilitating cross-cultural research and
career assessment
International Access to the Occupational Information Network
The Occupational Information Network (O*NET) is a premier source of occupational
information in the United States, attracting both national and international users. Government
agencies, policy makers, researchers, and job seekers use O*NET and its products for various
purposes. O*NET collects and publishes information on over 1,000 occupations, integrating
occupational information, data, assessments, and other occupational resources. Each year, there
are about 50 million site visits from over 150 different countries. Table 1 lists the top 25
countries, other than the United States, visiting O*NET sites each year.
Table 1. Top International Countries Visiting O*NET Sites
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Canada
United Kingdom
Puerto Rico
Germany
Australia
Netherlands
Singapore
Spain
Japan

Countries
10. Taiwan
11. Sweden
12. South Africa
13. New Zealand
14. South Korea
15. France
16. China
17. Turkey
18. Switzerland

19. Italy
20. Hong Kong
21. Malaysia
22. India
23. Guam
24. Iran
25. Ireland

Note. Table adapted from Hanna, Gregory, Lewis, & Rounds (2019)

International governments, researchers, and clients visit and utilize O*NET for many purposes,
including use of the O*NET occupational taxonomy, database, and products. Among O*NET’s

National Center for O*NET Development

134

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS
products, the O*NET program has several career exploration tools, each designed to help clients
understand aspects of their career interests and skills. The Interest Profiler (IP) in particular is a
family of measures designed to help users discover work activities and occupations that they
would enjoy.
Cross-Cultural Interest Assessment
In the modern economy, it is important to understand the complexities of research across cultural
and national boundaries. It should not be assumed that theories and assessments derived in one
culture will generalize to other cultures. Rather, theories should be subject to stringent tests in
different countries and with different ethnic groups.
The Interest Profiler (IP) assesses vocational interests according to Holland’s (1997) RIASEC
(Realistic, Investigative, Artistic, Social, Enterprising, and Conventional) types. With this
purpose, the IP lends itself well to international interest assessment. Holland’s (1997) theory of
people and work environments has been tested in many cross-cultural applications and has
generally been supported in countries across the globe.
In particular, support for Holland’s circular model has been demonstrated in Europe
(Einarsdóttir, Rounds, & Su, 2010; Nagy, Trautwein, & Lüdtke, 2007; Šverko, 2008; Šverko &
Babarović, 2006), Australia (Taylor, Kelso, Pretty, & Power, 1980), and Asia (Fahr, Leong, &
Law, 1998; Leong, Austin, Sekaran, & Komarraju, 1998; Long, Adams, & Tracey, 2005; Soh &
Leong, 2001; Tak, 2004; Yang, Stokes, & Hui, 2004). This evidence supports the use of
RIASEC interest measures outside of the United States. Although this research has not
specifically examined the validity of the Interest Profiler in Europe or Asia, the results exhibit
promising possibilities.
However, there has not been much research on extending Holland’s (1997) theory into Africa or
South America. One study found a lack of support for Holland’s (1997) circular model in South
Africa (du Toit & de Bruin, 2002). The authors noted that the high unemployment rate in the
region may have skewed participants’ interest responses, but there have yet to be many studies to
test the validity of Holland’s (1997) model in Africa. Similarly, only a few studies have
investigated the validity of Holland’s (1997) RIASEC model in South America. Glidden-Tracey
and Parraga (1996) found that Holland’s (1997) circumplex structure did not fit well with a
sample of Bolivian students. In these cases, more research should be done to investigate the
validity of Holland’s (1997) theory in Africa and South America, including the use of the Interest
Profiler for international vocational interest assessment.
O*NET Interest Profiler: English- and Spanish-Language Versions
Clients from over 50 different countries have taken advantage of the Interest Profiler and the full
suite of O*NET career exploration tools. Table 2 lists the countries, other than the United States,
who have requested access to the O*NET career exploration tools, including the Interest Profiler.

National Center for O*NET Development

135

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS

Table 2. International Countries with Client Access to the O*NET Interest Profiler
Countries
Albania
Angola
Antigua
Australia
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Belarus
Belgium
Brazil
Cameroon
Canada
China
Egypt
Ethiopia
France
Germany
Ghana

Greece
Guatemala
Honduras
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jordan
Kenya
Lebanon
Malaysia
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria

Philippines
Poland
Puerto Rico
Romania
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Taiwan
Thailand
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Virgin Islands
Zimbabwe

When clients request access to the career exploration tools, there are several versions of the
O*NET Interest Profiler from which to choose depending on the client’s needs. Specifically,
the Interest Profiler (IP) has four different versions. Three of these versions are in English,
including the O*NET Interest Profiler Long Form (IP Long Form) with 180 items, the O*NET
Interest Profiler Short Form (IP Short Form) with 60 items, and the O*NET Mini Interest
Profiler (Mini-IP) with 30 items. The computerized version of the IP Long Form was recently
retired, but the IP Short Form has both paper-and-pencil and Web-based versions, and the
Mini-IP has been implemented as a mobile version. All versions are free to use and easily
accessible. Visit the O*NET Resource Center for more information
(https://www.onetcenter.org/IP.html).
In addition to the English-language versions of the Interest Profiler, a Spanish-language version
is available through Mi Próximo Paso (www.miproximopaso.org), which is the
Spanish-language version of the O*NET career exploration site, My Next Move. The
Spanish-language version of the O*NET Interest Profiler Short Form is freely available in
web-based form. The Web-based version of the IP Short Form was translated into Spanish and
verified by a translation team to ensure reliability and accuracy of translation. The Spanish form
allows greater accessibility of the Interest Profiler not only for Spanish-speaking citizens in the
United States, but also Spanish-speaking users in international contexts. Between the different
language options and formats, the Interest Profiler offers many options to serve the various needs
of clients across the globe.

National Center for O*NET Development

136

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS
Cross-Cultural Applications of the Interest Profiler
The widespread accessibility of the Interest Profiler makes it an excellent candidate for
cross-cultural research. Any person with internet access can take the Interest Profiler free of
charge, and paper-and-pencil versions can be disseminated without internet access as well. With
a common metric and easily accessible items, researchers are encouraged to conduct
cross-cultural research in order to establish measurement invariance, reliability, construct
validity, and criterion-related validity internationally. Some specific international applications of
the Interest Profiler (IP) are outlined below.
The IP is a useful tool to match one’s interests to career options. Each occupation with O*NET
data has an Occupational Interest Profile (OIP; Rounds, Smith, Hubert, Lewis, & Rivkin, 1999;
Rounds, Armstrong, Liao, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2008). These OIPs were developed through expert
scoring of occupations on all six RIASEC interest categories. The Interest Profiler is linked to
occupational OIPs to recommend occupations based on an individual’s interest scores
(Kroustalis, Lewis, & Rivkin, 2010). This linkage is helpful for students and job seekers in many
nations around the world to quickly match their interests to career options. Although
occupational landscapes differ across countries, the broad list of occupational options can
provide guidelines and a place to start one’s job search process. International users of the Interest
Profiler can also use information about RIASEC-based environments in their home country if
such information is already developed.
Companies can also benefit from use of the Interest Profiler. From small businesses to global
companies, interest assessments can inform human resource decision-making processes. Interests
are an important predictor of outcomes like job performance and success-in-training (Nye, Su,
Rounds, & Drasgow, 2012, 2017), and interests have been shown to predict career success
(Rounds & Su, 2014). These outcomes are important for both internal and external hiring and
promotions, so companies can utilize the Interest Profiler to assess whether employees’ interests
match the dominant tasks of different positions. Employees can easily access the interest profiles
for their own occupation or similar occupations using O*NET OIPs, and the paper-and-pencil IP
can easily be given and scored without computer-access. For international companies in
particular, it is recommended to conduct a local validity study with current employees to assess
whether the results of the Interest Profiler predict outcomes such as job performance.
In summary, researchers who conduct cross-cultural studies can benefit from a freely-available
measure that is accessible across the world. The Interest Profiler is an excellent resource to
assess RIASEC interests for individual career guidance, research studies, or organizational
decision-making. For English- and Spanish-speaking countries, the IP Short Form has been
pre-validated and is readily available for use. However, if translation to other languages is
necessary, care should be taken to translate and back-translate the IP using a team of experts. In
addition, it is also recommended to establish measurement invariance when conducting
cross-cultural research, especially when participants from multiple countries are included in the
sample. It is important to establish measurement invariance to ensure that interest items assess
the same constructs in a similar structure in different countries, contexts, and across
socio-demographic variables.

National Center for O*NET Development

137

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS
References
du Toit, R., & de Bruin, G. P. (2002). The structural validity of Holland’s RIASEC model of
vocational personality types for young black South African men and women. Journal of
Career Assessment, 10(1), 62-77.
Einarsdóttir, S., Rounds, J., & Su, R. (2010). Holland in Iceland revisited: An emic approach to
evaluating US vocational interest models. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 57(3), 361.
Farh, J. L., Leong, F. T., & Law, K. S. (1998). Cross-cultural validity of Holland's model in
Hong Kong. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 52(3), 425-440.
Glidden-Tracey, C. E., & Parraga, M. I. (1996). Assessing the structure of vocational interests
among Bolivian university students. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 48(1), 96-106.
Hanna A., Gregory C., Lewis P. M., & Rounds J. (2019) International career assessment using
the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). In: Athanasou J., Perera H. (eds)
International Handbook of Career Guidance. Springer, Cham.
https://doi-org.unr.idm.oclc.org/10.1007/978-3-030-25153-6_27
Kroustalis, C., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2010). Linking client assessment profiles to O* NET®
Occupational Profiles within the O* NET Interest Profiler Short Form. Raleigh, NC:
National Center for O*NET Development.
Leong, F. T. L., Austin, J. T., Sekaran, U., & Komarraju, M. (1998). An evaluation of the crosscultural validity of Holland’s theory: Career choices by workers in India. Journal of
Vocational Behavior, 52, 441-455.
Long, L., Adams, R. S., & Tracey, T. J. (2005). Generalizability of interest structure to China:
Application of the Personal Globe Inventory. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 66(1),
66-80.
Nagy, G., Trautwein, U., & Lüdtke, O. (2010). The structure of vocational interests in Germany:
Different methodologies, different conclusions. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 76(2),
153-169.
Nye, C. D., Su, R., Rounds, J., & Drasgow, F. (2012). Vocational interests and performance: A
quantitative summary of over 60 years of research. Perspectives on Psychological
Science, 7(4), 384-403. doi: 10.1177/1745691612449021.
Nye, C. D., Su, R., Rounds, J., & Drasgow, F. (2017). Interest congruence and performance:
Revisiting recent meta-analytic findings. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 98, 138-151.

National Center for O*NET Development

138

CHAPTER 8: INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS
Rounds, J., Armstrong, P. I., Liao, H. Y., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (2008). Second generation
occupational interest profiles for the O* NET system: Summary. Raleigh, NC: The
National Center for O* NET Development.
Rounds, J., Smith, T., Hubert, L., Lewis, P., & Rivkin, D. (1999). Development of occupational
interest profiles for O* NET. Raleigh, NC: National Center for O* NET Development.
Rounds, J., & Su, R. (2014). The nature and power of interests. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 23, 98-103. doi: 10.1177/0963721414522812.
Soh, S., & Leong, F. T. (2001). Cross-cultural validation of Holland's theory in Singapore:
Beyond structural validity of RIASEC. Journal of Career Assessment, 9(2), 115-133.
Šverko, I. (2008). Spherical model of interests in Croatia. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 72(1),
14-24.
Šverko, I., & Babarović, T. (2006). The validity of Holland’s theory in Croatia. Journal of
Career Assessment, 14(4), 490-507.
Tak, J. (2004). Structure of vocational interests for Korean college students. Journal of Career
Assessment, 12(3), 298-311.
Taylor, K. F., Kelso, G. I., Pretty, H. I., & Power, P. G. (1980). Some cultural and sex
differences in response to the VPI: An Australian-American comparison. In Melbourne
Psychology Report No. 65. Department of Psychology, Univ. of Melbourne Melbourne,
Australia.

National Center for O*NET Development

139

