Element Name: Near Vision
Description: The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
Level Examples:
Level 85: Detect minor defects in a diamond
Level 71: Read the fine print of a legal document
Level 28: Read indicators on the dashboard of a car
Element Name: Multilimb Coordination
Description: The ability to coordinate two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Play the drum set in a jazz band
Level 57: Operate a forklift truck in a warehouse
Level 28: Row a boat
Element Name: Static Strength
Description: The ability to exert maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Lift 75-pound bags of cement onto a truck
Level 57: Pull a 40-pound sack of fertilizer across the lawn
Level 14: Push an empty shopping cart
Element Name: Dynamic Flexibility
Description: The ability to quickly and repeatedly bend, stretch, twist, or reach out with your body, arms, and/or legs.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Maneuver a kayak through swift rapids
Level 71: Perform a dance routine as part of a cheerleading squad
Level 28: Hand pick a bushel of apples from a tree
Element Name: Trunk Strength
Description: The ability to use your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without "giving out" or fatiguing.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Do 100 sit-ups
Level 57: Shovel snow for half an hour
Level 28: Sit up in an office chair
Element Name: Wrist-Finger Speed
Description: The ability to make fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Type 90 words per minute
Level 42: Carve roast beef in a cafeteria
Level 28: Use a screwdriver to twist in a screw
Element Name: Auditory Attention
Description: The ability to focus on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Listen to instructions from a coworker in a noisy saw mill
Level 57: Listen for your flight announcement at a busy airport
Level 28: Listen to a lecture while people nearby are talking
Element Name: Oral Expression
Description: The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Explain advanced principles of genetics to college freshmen
Level 57: Give instructions to a lost motorist
Level 28: Place an order at a restaurant drive-thru
Element Name: Arm-Hand Steadiness
Description: The ability to keep your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Cut facets in a diamond
Level 57: Thread a needle
Level 28: Light a candle
Element Name: Night Vision
Description: The ability to see under low-light conditions.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Find your way through the woods on a moonless night
Level 57: Read a book in a dimly lit setting
Level 28: Read street signs at dusk (just after sunset)
Element Name: Inductive Reasoning
Description: The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
Level Examples:
Level 85: Diagnose a disease using results of many different lab tests
Level 57: Determine the prime suspect based on crime scene evidence
Level 28: Decide what to wear based on the weather report
Element Name: Flexibility of Closure
Description: The ability to identify or detect a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Identify camouflaged animals from a moving vehicle while on a safari
Level 57: Look for a golf ball in tall grass
Level 28: Detect that your phone is ringing while at a concert
Element Name: Originality
Description: The ability to come up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Invent a new type of man-made fiber
Level 57: Redesign job tasks to be interesting for employees
Level 28: Use a credit card to open a locked door
Element Name: Selective Attention
Description: The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Study a technical manual while listening to loud construction sounds
Level 57: Watch security monitors for intruders throughout the night shift
Level 28: Answer a business call with coworkers talking nearby
Element Name: Visual Color Discrimination
Description: The ability to match or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Paint a color portrait of a person
Level 57: Trace electrical circuits marked by various colored wires
Level 14: Separate laundry into colors and whites
Element Name: Written Expression
Description: The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Write an advanced economics textbook
Level 57: Write a job recommendation for a subordinate
Level 14: Write a note to remind someone to take food out of the freezer
Element Name: Speech Clarity
Description: The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Give a lecture to a large audience
Level 57: Make stadium-wide announcements during a sporting event
Level 14: Call numbers in a bingo game
Element Name: Dynamic Strength
Description: The ability to exert muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Perform a gymnastics routine using the rings
Level 71: Climb a 48-foot long ladder
Level 28: Use pruning shears to trim a bush
Element Name: Spatial Orientation
Description: The ability to know your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Navigate an ocean voyage using a compass and landmarks
Level 42: Find your way through a dark room without hitting anything
Level 28: Use the floor plan to locate a store in a mall
Element Name: Oral Comprehension
Description: The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Understand a lecture on advanced physics
Level 57: Understand a coach's oral instructions for a sport
Level 28: Understand a television commercial
Element Name: Finger Dexterity
Description: The ability to make precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Put together the inner workings of a small wrist watch
Level 57: Attach small dials to audio equipment on an assembly line
Level 28: Put coins in a parking meter
Element Name: Number Facility
Description: The ability to add, subtract, multiply, or divide quickly and correctly.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Compute the interest payment that should be generated from an investment
Level 42: Calculate a discounted price
Level 14: Add 2 and 7
Element Name: Category Flexibility
Description: The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Classify man-made fibers in terms of their characteristics, like strength or cost
Level 42: Classify flowers according to size, color, and smell
Level 28: Sort paintbrushes based on length
Element Name: Depth Perception
Description: The ability to judge which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Throw a long pass to a closely guarded teammate
Level 57: Operate a crane to move materials from a truck bed to the ground
Level 28: Merge a car into traffic on a city street
Element Name: Speed of Limb Movement
Description: The ability to quickly move the arms and legs.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Throw punches in a boxing match
Level 57: Swat a fly with a fly swatter
Level 28: Saw through a thin piece of wood
Element Name: Sound Localization
Description: The ability to tell the direction from which a sound originated.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Determining the direction of an emergency vehicle from the sound of the siren
Level 57: Find a ringing phone in an unfamiliar apartment
Level 28: Listen to a sound system to determine which speaker is working
Element Name: Mathematical Reasoning
Description: The ability to choose the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Determine the mathematics required to simulate a space craft landing on the moon
Level 57: Decide how to calculate profits to determine the amounts of yearly bonuses
Level 14: Determine how much 20 oranges will cost when they are priced at 5 for 4 dollars
Element Name: Memorization
Description: The ability to remember information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Recite a 300-word speech after studying it for 15 minutes
Level 57: Recite the first names of the five people you just met
Level 14: Remember the number on your bus to be sure you get back on the right one
Element Name: Visualization
Description: The ability to imagine how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Anticipate future moves in a chess game
Level 57: Follow a diagram to assemble a metal storage cabinet
Level 28: Imagine how to place paper in a printer so that the letterhead comes out on top
Element Name: Written Comprehension
Description: The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Understand an instruction book on repairing Artificial Intelligence systems
Level 57: Understand an apartment lease
Level 28: Understand signs on the highway
Element Name: Peripheral Vision
Description: The ability to see objects or movement of objects to one's side when the eyes are looking ahead.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Distinguish a teammate from a competitor passing by in a car race
Level 57: Be aware of the location of your teammates while dribbling a basketball
Level 28: Keep in step while marching in a band
Element Name: Deductive Reasoning
Description: The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Design an aircraft wing using principles of aerodynamics
Level 71: Decide what factors to consider in selecting stocks
Level 28: Know that a stalled car can coast downhill
Element Name: Time Sharing
Description: The ability to shift back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources).
Level Examples:
Level 85: Monitor radar and radio transmissions to keep track of heavy aircraft traffic
Level 42: Watch street signs while driving at 30 miles an hour
Level 28: Listen to music while entering numbers into a spreadsheet
Element Name: Response Orientation
Description: The ability to choose quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part.
Level Examples:
Level 100: In an out-of-control commercial aircraft, react quickly to restore control
Level 57: Use either the brake or gas pedal when your vehicle is skidding
Level 28: When a doorbell and phone ring at the same time, quickly select which to answer first
Element Name: Speed of Closure
Description: The ability to quickly make sense of, combine, and organize information into meaningful patterns.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Interpret patterns on weather radar to decide if the weather is changing
Level 57: Make sense of messy handwriting
Level 42: Recognize a song after hearing only the first few notes
Element Name: Fluency of Ideas
Description: The ability to come up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity).
Level Examples:
Level 85: Identify as many strategies as possible for a company acquisition and merger
Level 57: Think of as many ideas as possible for the name of a new company
Level 28: Name four different uses for a screwdriver
Element Name: Gross Body Coordination
Description: The ability to coordinate the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Perform a ballet dance
Level 57: Swim the length of a pool
Level 28: Get in and out of a truck
Element Name: Manual Dexterity
Description: The ability to quickly move your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble objects.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Perform open heart surgery with surgical instruments
Level 57: Pack oranges in crates as quickly as possible
Level 14: Screw a light bulb into a light socket
Element Name: Gross Body Equilibrium
Description: The ability to keep or regain your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Walk on narrow beams in high-rise construction
Level 57: Walk on ice across a pond
Level 28: Stand on a ladder
Element Name: Reaction Time
Description: The ability to quickly respond (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal (sound, light, picture) when it appears.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Hit the brake when a pedestrian steps in front of your car
Level 57: Press a button to stop operation when a warning light goes off
Level 28: Start to slow down the car when a traffic light turns yellow
Element Name: Hearing Sensitivity
Description: The ability to detect or tell the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Tune an orchestra
Level 57: Diagnose what's wrong with a car engine from its sound
Level 28: Notice a doorbell ringing
Element Name: Information Ordering
Description: The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations).
Level Examples:
Level 85: Assemble a wind turbine
Level 28: Follow the correct steps to make change
Level 14: Put things in numerical order
Element Name: Rate Control
Description: The ability to time your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Shoot a duck in flight
Level 57: Keep up with a car that changes speed
Level 14: Ride a bicycle alongside a jogger
Element Name: Stamina
Description: The ability to exert yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Run 10 miles
Level 57: Climb 6 flights of stairs
Level 14: Walk 1/4 mile
Element Name: Glare Sensitivity
Description: The ability to see objects in the presence of a glare or bright lighting.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Snow ski in bright sunlight
Level 71: See boats on the horizon when sailing
Level 28: Drive on a familiar road on a cloudy day
Element Name: Control Precision
Description: The ability to quickly and repeatedly adjust the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Drill a tooth
Level 57: Adjust farm tractor controls
Level 28: Adjust a room light with a dimmer switch
Element Name: Perceptual Speed
Description: The ability to quickly and accurately compare similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Inspect electrical parts for defects as they pass on a fast-moving assembly line
Level 57: Read five pressure indicators in 10 seconds to make sure each is within safe limits
Level 28: Sort mail according to ZIP codes with no time pressure
Element Name: Problem Sensitivity
Description: The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing that there is a problem.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Recognize an illness at an early stage of a disease when there are only a few symptoms
Level 57: Notice from a subtle difference in a client's mood that something is bothering them
Level 28: Recognize that an unplugged lamp won't work
Element Name: Far Vision
Description: The ability to see details at a distance.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Detect differences in ships on the horizon
Level 57: Read the slides on a presentation from across a room
Level 28: Read a roadside billboard
Element Name: Extent Flexibility
Description: The ability to bend, stretch, twist, or reach with your body, arms, and/or legs.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Work under the dashboard of a car
Level 57: Reach for a box on a high warehouse shelf
Level 28: Reach to adjust the radio in a car
Element Name: Explosive Strength
Description: The ability to use short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting), or to throw an object.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Throw a shot-put in a track meet
Level 57: Jump onto a 3-foot high platform
Level 28: Hit a nail with a hammer
Element Name: Speech Recognition
Description: The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Understand a speech presented by someone with an unfamiliar accent
Level 57: Identify a former customer's voice over the phone
Level 28: Recognize the voice of a coworker