Element Name: Design
Description: Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Develop detailed plans for a high-rise office building
Level 57: Design plans for remodeling a kitchen
Level 28: Draw a straight line 4 3/16 inches long
Element Name: Chemistry
Description: Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Develop a safe commercial cleaner
Level 57: Use the proper concentration of chlorine to purify a water source
Level 28: Use a common household bug spray
Element Name: Transportation
Description: Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Control air traffic at a busy airport
Level 71: Drive a semi-truck through a busy city
Level 28: Ride a train to work
Element Name: Philosophy and Theology
Description: Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Compare the teachings of major philosophers
Level 57: Understand another culture's religious practices
Level 28: Watch a TV show on family values
Element Name: Public Safety and Security
Description: Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Command a military operation
Level 57: Inspect a building site for safety violations
Level 14: Use a seatbelt
Element Name: Sociology and Anthropology
Description: Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures, and their history and origins.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Create a new theory about the development of civilizations
Level 71: Write an article about cultural differences
Level 28: Identify two cultures in a story as being different
Element Name: Telecommunications
Description: Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Develop a new, world-wide telecommunications network
Level 28: Install a wireless internet router
Level 14: Send an email
Element Name: Customer and Personal Service
Description: Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Respond to a citizen's request for assistance after a major disaster
Level 57: Be responsible for 10 children at daycare
Level 28: Process a customer's dry-cleaning drop off
Element Name: Administrative
Description: Knowledge of administrative and office procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and workplace terminology.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Organize a digital storage system for company forms
Level 42: Type 30 words per minute
Level 28: Direct phone calls to the appropriate staff member
Element Name: Computers and Electronics
Description: Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Create a program to scan a computer for viruses
Level 42: Use a computer to format a document
Level 14: Operate a media player to watch a training video
Element Name: Mathematics
Description: Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Derive a complex mathematical equation
Level 57: Analyze data to determine areas with the highest sales
Level 14: Add two numbers
Element Name: Medicine and Dentistry
Description: Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Perform open heart surgery
Level 71: Fill a tooth cavity
Level 14: Use a band-aid
Element Name: Production and Processing
Description: Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Manage an international shipping company distribution center
Level 57: Supervise an appliance assembly line
Level 28: Put a computer back into its packing materials
Element Name: Foreign Language
Description: Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Write an English language review of a book written in a foreign language
Level 42: Ask directions in a foreign city
Level 14: Say "please" and "thank you" in a foreign language
Element Name: Building and Construction
Description: Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Build a high-rise office tower
Level 57: Fix a plumbing leak in the ceiling
Level 28: Choose the proper type of wood for adding a deck onto a house
Element Name: Biology
Description: Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Isolate and identify a new virus
Level 71: Investigate the effects of pollution on marine plants and animals
Level 14: Feed domestic animals
Element Name: English Language
Description: Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Teach a college English class
Level 57: Edit an article for a news website
Level 28: Write a thank you note
Element Name: Therapy and Counseling
Description: Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Counsel an abused child
Level 57: Provide job counseling to the unemployed
Level 28: Put ice on a sprained ankle
Element Name: Food Production
Description: Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Run a large production farm
Level 71: Operate a commercial fishing boat
Level 28: Grow herbs in the kitchen
Element Name: Geography
Description: Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Develop a map of the world showing mountains, deserts, and rivers
Level 57: Find a specific country on a world map
Level 28: Know the capital of the United States
Element Name: Sales and Marketing
Description: Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Develop a marketing plan for a new nationwide high-speed internet system
Level 57: Introduce clients to a new line of products
Level 28: Sell cakes at a bake sale
Element Name: Engineering and Technology
Description: Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Plan for the impact of weather in designing a bridge
Level 57: Design a custom office chair
Level 28: Install a door lock
Element Name: Physics
Description: Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub-atomic structures and processes.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Design a cleaner burning gasoline engine
Level 57: Calculate the speed of a falling object
Level 14: Use a crowbar to pry open a box
Element Name: Administration and Management
Description: Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Manage a multimillion-dollar company
Level 57: Monitor progress of a project to ensure timely completion
Level 28: Approve a reimbursement request
Element Name: History and Archeology
Description: Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Determine the age of bones for placing them in fossil history
Level 57: Teach local history to school children
Level 42: Take a class in US history
Element Name: Fine Arts
Description: Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Design an exhibit for a major art show
Level 42: Play a minor part in a local theater play
Level 14: Attend a popular music concert
Element Name: Education and Training
Description: Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Design a training program for new employees
Level 57: Lead a quality improvement seminar
Level 28: Show someone how to bowl
Element Name: Personnel and Human Resources
Description: Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Design a new personnel selection and promotion system for the Army
Level 42: Interview applicants for an administrative position
Level 28: Fill out a medical claim form
Element Name: Communications and Media
Description: Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media.
Level Examples:
Level 71: Write a novel
Level 57: Host a music radio show
Level 28: Write a thank you note
Element Name: Mechanical
Description: Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance.
Level Examples:
Level 100: Overhaul an airplane jet engine
Level 57: Replace a valve on a steam pipe
Level 28: Replace the filters in a furnace
Element Name: Psychology
Description: Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Treat a person with a severe mental illness
Level 57: Understand the impact of alcohol on human responses
Level 28: Monitor several children on a playground
Element Name: Economics and Accounting
Description: Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking, and the analysis and reporting of financial data.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Keep a major corporation's financial records
Level 57: Develop financial investment programs for individual clients
Level 28: Answer billing questions from credit card customers
Element Name: Law and Government
Description: Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
Level Examples:
Level 85: Serve as a judge in a federal court
Level 57: Prepare documents and title papers for the purchase of a new house
Level 28: Describe the length of a U.S. presidential term